Insurance 1

Fundamentals of Insurance Part one course targets anyone looking to learn insurance from entry level

because this course is designed specifically for beginners and I assume by beginners students, jobseekers

or those who are already working in the insurance industry.

But in junior or entry level also beginners could be a secretary.

Call center agents, sales staff, underwriting beginners or claim personnel beginners.

You could be anyone who wants to learn more about insurance basics.

However, if the students is an experienced professional and wants to join, there is absolutely no

issue because this course might help you refresh your memory all fill some knowledge gaps.

This course is not like any other course.

Hopefully Fundamentals of Insurance Part one does not require any previous knowledge or any background

skills.

What you only need is the will and determination to learn about insurance.

You don't need to worry about anything.

I have covered all the basics in this course and I will walk you through it smoothly and provide you

with all needed information to pass the stage.
It's really important for any course to have proper course objectives.

And this course is not an exception to this rule.

Therefore, we will elaborate in this area to be clear on the learning objectives and the knowledge

you will gain after completing this course.

By the end of this course, you should be able to understand the following.

Before reaching to fundamentals of insurance, There are multiple steps you need to be clear about.

We will learn about risk awareness and risk assessment.

We will explain the meaning of the word risk.

Then we will talk about risk definitions.

Types of risk attitudes.

We will simplify risk management and learn about risk management tasks or functions.

We will list the types of risk controls.

Then we will define insurance.

We will explain the classifications of risk.

And finally, principles of insurance.

The last three points in this list are the most important topics, and these topics will get us to the

initial step to understand the insurance properly.

I hope you all enjoy this course and learn the most of it.

Please contact me if you have any questions and I'm happy to answer.This is chapter one of this course, Fundamentals of Insurance.

In this chapter, we need to be clear that there are multiple steps we need to take and come across

before we start learning about the fundamentals of insurance.

Starting immediately with fundamentals at this stage of learning could cause a confusion in the future

learning.

Therefore, it is better for the students to build up from the bottom line of this subject until we

reach to the fundamentals of insurance where we will learn a lot of information in this area.

We are taking this approach because it is always better to know how it all started before getting where

we need to reach.

And this approach will help us to avoid any knowledge gaps in the future.

Learning.

Following our introduction to this chapter, you can see from the smart art that there are multiple

steps over and before the fundamentals of insurance is step, the first step toward the fundamentals

of insurance is to learn about risk awareness and risk assessment.

Then learning how to define the meaning of the word risk in detail.

Then learn the basics of risk management and the risk management tasks or functions.

And the last but not the least, define insurance and explain how insurance works.

And the end of this course.

And after all the steps we've just mentioned, we will start learning about the fundamentals of insurance.

It is important to mention here that the technical term for fundamentals of insurance is known as principles

of insurance.

However, at that point of time only where you will feel that you are having a greater technical information

about insurance.

Also, it is important to highlight that at the beginning of this course you will find your that you

are only learning bits and pieces about this subject and sometimes nonsense lessons.

Don't worry.

By the end of this course we will combine those bits and pieces and come up with a clear idea on the

fundamentals or principles of insurance, where you will learn in a greater detail on insurance and

eventually prepare yourselves for this field properly.In conclusion, from this chapter, you only need to understand that before you start learning about

the fundamentals of insurance, you have to learn how to be aware and assess the risk.

How you can define the risk.

Understand the risk management and the functions of risk management.

Then define insurance like a professional.

Only then, after passing all that steps, we will start learning about fundamentals or principles of

insurance where the core of this subject start.

This is the end of chapter one.

Please review properly before you jump to the next chapter and do not hesitate to ask questions.This is chapter two of Discourse Risk Awareness and Risk Assessment.

Awareness and assessment are two skills that are important for the field of insurance.

If we are not aware of risk, we cannot assess it and therefore we cannot take action against that risk.

Therefore, the more we are aware, the better we can assess and take actions.To begin with this chapter.

On a good note, we need to ask ourselves the following questions.

What is awareness and what is assessment?

Do you think you can tell?

If not, don't worry.

We will discuss this in detail first.

What is the word awareness mean?

In definition, awareness means understanding, perceiving, and knowledge.

As a result.

Risk awareness, we can say, is the knowledge of the risk.

In simple words, risk awareness is knowing about the risk, whatever this risk is.

We understand it.

We perceive it.

And we are familiar with it.

Once we accomplish this, we become aware of risk.

But the question is how?

We will explain in detail in few seconds.

Second, in order what assessment means in definition.

Assessment means evaluation and levelling.

As a result, risk assessment, we can say evaluation of the risk or levelling the risk.

For example, scaling or rating the risk from 1 to 5 or from low to high.

You may use whatever evaluation method you wish to use to evaluate the risk.

However, we have unique tools for evaluating the risk, which we will learn about in this chapter.Risks constantly surround individuals or business entities all the time and to become aware of any risk.

We need some information, data or previous experience related to this risk we want to become aware

of.

Let us put it this way.

There is a risk surrounding us and we want to become aware of it.

To do so, we need some inputs or information about this risk.

Otherwise, we may be had a past experience with this risk before, which is also considered an input.

Therefore, we know the consequences of this risk.

Directly with this information, data or previous experience which is available to us.

We will become aware of this risk because of that knowledge we can achieve at this stage awareness.

Consequently, we made ourselves familiar with this risk.Subsequent to risk awareness.

And after we become familiar with the risk, we can assess or evaluate that risk based on the data and

the information we have around this risk.

In other words, we can figure out the consequences after becoming aware of any risk.

Therefore, assessment stage will be triggered only after risk awareness stage.

Only then we will do an assessment on the risk, and based on that assessment, we will react as an

output.For better understanding and building up the knowledge in this area.

We will explain risk awareness and risk assessment with the following three examples and these examples

chosen specifically to illustrate and deliver the idea of awareness and assessment in simple way.

First example is losing a cell phone.

Second example is getting wet for not taking an umbrella on a rainy day.

Third example is missing a bus ride and being late.

We will illustrate each one in details.Using a cell phone is considered a risk.

However, we need to assume that we are not aware of this risk.

Or maybe we are aware of it, but we do not have a problem with the consequences of losing the cell

phone.

Anyway, every time we leave a place, we check if our cell phone is in our pocket or not.

Right.

Therefore, this is a risk and we are afraid that we might lose our cell phone and suffer from such

loss.

On the other hand, if we are rich, we don't need to worry and we will not consider this as a risk.

Because we can simply buy a new one.

As a result, this risk can be considered a shallow risk for us, and the consequences are not a big

problem.

However, in both cases stated earlier, losing a cell phone will still have an impact, either a strong

or minor impact.

The case is different from one person to another.

With such scenario, where and when did we become aware of the risk of losing a cell phone?

To answer this question, naturally we know that if we lose our cell phone, we need another one.

In such case, that would result in costing us money to replace it.

And this is considered a reason to become aware of this risk.

This money could be huge for some people or for others.

This money might be nothing.

And either way, losing a cell phone costs money.

Even if we don't care because we are rich.

Still, it is a risk and it has an impact.

The impact of this risk or the level of this risk is different from one person to another.

Another reason also that might made us aware of losing the cell phone is the data stored within the

cell phone.

Sometimes this data is worth more than any money.

A final reason could be the previous experience.

Meaning in the past, we might have lost a cell phone before and this experience made us aware of such

risk.

All of the reasons mentioned earlier had made us aware by default in our minds about the risk of losing

the cell phone.

Since awareness is clear to us in this case, we can assess the risk.

Remember, awareness stage is achieved.

Hence, assessment stage will be triggered.

Assessment stage makes us ask questions like Is losing the cell phone huge money or little money?

Or whether the data stored in the cell phone is vital or not.

The answer to these questions is different from one person to another.

However, based on our assessment, the next step is the decision or action.

The action could be making sure the cell phone is in the pocket before leaving.

Or we might decide not to check and just leave.

It is all come down to what the answer was for the earlier questions.

To sum up in this example, we find that we relied on some inputs like stored data or the cost of the

cell phone to become aware of the risk.

Losing a cell phone and based on the consequences or impact on us.

We decided to take an action.

We either check our pockets or we leave without checking.

Do you feel how this works or not yet?

Don't worry.

Maybe the next example will clear your doubts.In this example, we are discussing the possibility of a rainy day.

And we know that not every day is a rainy day.

Let us assume there are two individuals, A and B.

The first individual, A, always has an umbrella in his hand, and the other B is not even thinking

about carrying one.

The question is what are the inputs here or what are the data that made us aware?

This data could be knowing the consequences of not taking an umbrella, which is getting wet and as

a result getting sick.

Also, the data could be a cloudy weather that indicates to a chance of a rainy day.

As a result of the previous data mentioned earlier, we made ourselves aware about the risk of getting

wet for not taking an umbrella on a rainy day.

Since awareness is clear to us in this case, we can assess the risk.

Remember, awareness stage is achieved.

Hence, assessment stage will be triggered after we become aware of the risk from the previous inputs.

We can now do some assessments based on the assessment.

We can take action on whether we should take an umbrella or not.

The decision will be based on the impact on each individual.

Let us assume the first individual A considers not taking an umbrella and getting wet.

A tremendous risk.

However, the second individual B considers not taking an umbrella a low risk.

To sum up in this example, we find that we relied on some inputs like getting wet or cloudy weather

to become aware of the risk and based on the consequences or impact on us, we decided to take an action.

We either take our umbrella or we leave without an umbrella.This is the last example on risk awareness and risk assessment.

Missing a bus ride and being late for a certain destination.

Let us assume there are two situations for this example.

The first situation there is an individual X who consider the risk of not catching a bus or missing.

It is considered low because being late for the destination individual X is heading to is not that important

and X only needs to be there and X has no time bound or any appointment at the planned destination.

In this situation the inputs would be being late to the destination X planned to be at.

And the consequences of being late is the impact based on the inputs.

X become aware that there is a risk of being late and after awareness.

X can assess the risk based on the consequences or the impact of being late to the planned destination.

Therefore, based on the impact from this situation, X take appropriate action and decide whether to

leave early to catch the bus or not.

And since X only needs to be there, X is likely to ignore leaving early to catch the bus.

The second situation on this example there is another individual Z and Z.

Consider the risk of not catching the same bus and being late is medium or high risk because Z might

lose a job interview opportunity, that might be an excellent chance for securing a job.

Similarly, in this situation, the inputs would be being late to the destination Z plan to B, and

the consequences of being late is the impact based on the inputs.

Z Become aware that there is a risk of being late and after awareness.

Z can assess the risk based on the consequences or the impact of being late to the planned destination.

Therefore, based on the impact from this situation, Z take a proper action and decide whether to leave

early to catch the bus or not.

And since Z must be there on time because of the job interview, Z is likely to leave early to catch

the bus.

To sum up, as we can see from this example, from two different points of view for the same risk,

teach us that each individual has his own data and information on the risk or in technical term inputs.

And based on these inputs, we become aware of risk.

Knowing the consequences helps in evaluating the risk or assessing it.

And based on that assessment, we take action.As promised earlier in this chapter, we will explain risk leveling or rating.

We need to know that risks vary from low to medium to high risks, and each risk has its own profile.

Therefore, to categorise or level each risk, we can use an important tool which is good to measure

or evaluate risks based on the impact of the risk.

And this tool called risk ometer.

Risk ometer can be defined as a graphical representation of the risk profile.

As you can see from the image here, the tool consists of multiple levels to assess risks using an arrow

that moves based on the consequences or impact of the risk on a certain individual or a business entity.

And this way, any risk can be profiled and labeled for future use.

It is important to highlight that this tool works only after we become aware of risk, because without

awareness, assessing the risk would not be triggered.

Again, since risk ometer works based on the impact and this impact varies from individual to another

or business entity to another, then what works for you might not work for the other.

In other words, a fresh computer arrow indicates low for a certain risk related to you.

It might indicate high for others.To expand in the area of risk leveling.

We will learn about the risk level matrix before we start.

It is crucial to know that limiting the risk or risk assessment requires two components.

Up to now, we explained only one of them, which is impact.

However, there is one more component to be considered for leveling or evaluating the risk, and this

component is the likelihood and definition.

Likelihood means how likely the risk will happen and impact means.

If the risk happens, what are the consequences or how serious this could be if this risk happens.

As we can see from this image here, both components are placed on the risk level matrix.

It is important to clarify that risk level matrix job is to help us take action after evaluating the

risk, using the two components of risk assessment, impact and likelihood.

We will assume that we have a risk with a possible likelihood, and the impact of this risk is severe.

So the result of evaluation will be the matching points between the horizontal line from both above

and the vertical line from severe.

As a result, in this case, the risk is high, which means the level of risk is high.

And based on that result, we take a proper action.

To make things interesting, Let us apply one of the previous examples we discussed using a cell phone.

The likelihood, let us assume, is possible and the impact is significant.

Therefore, the risk level is the matching point between the horizontal line from possible and the vertical

line from significant, which is medium risk.

Then, based on this result, we will make a decision that suits us.

From this chapter, you need to know that inputs lead to awareness, and from awareness we can understand

impact.

Then the impact leads us to evaluation.

And based on evaluation, we take actions.

Also, leveling the risk is important and can be done using risk ometer a great tool to profile the

risk.

What you need to get familiar with it.

In addition, risk level metrics that provide a greater evaluation and profiling for the risk.

This is the end of chapter two.

Please review properly before you jump to the next chapter and do not hesitate to ask questions.This is chapter three of discourse, the Meaning of the Word risk.

Today, we will learn what the word risk means.

Risk has many definitions, and specifically in the area of insurance.

There are multiple technical definitions for the word risk, and we will learn about it in this course.

However, in this chapter, we will only define the word risk in general.We need to do a simple experiment to help us understand the meaning of the word risk in general.

I need you to pose this video later to answer the following question.

I will let you know when to post the video.

However, I have left 60 seconds of silence in this video, just in case you forgot to post.

So what does the word risk mean to you?

The best way to do this experiment is to bring a piece of paper and a pen and write down what this word

means to you.

You may answer the question as you like, either by giving an example or else you may would answer the

question by giving an idea or whatever thought comes to your mind about the meaning of the word risk.

Once you finish listing down your thoughts, you can continue this video to compare what you have written

down with what we will explain in this class.

All right.

You may or may not post the video now because the one minute is already compensated in the video.

Now, complete the task by answering what does the word risk mean to you?

You have one minute.

Have you finished?

Let us move forward.

Now, you might have listed hundreds of examples or ideas that came to your mind.

And that is good, actually.

But I need you to wait a little while and hold these thoughts for now.

Please keep the piece of paper you have wrote on it next to you.

It will come handy in the next few minutes.What we will do now is that we will list some examples of risks, and these examples are from our previous

class.

Losing a cell phone, getting wet for not taking an umbrella on a rainy day, missing a bus ride and

being late.

We need to focus on the general definition of risk here.

But how?

Let me ask these questions.

What is the connection or what is the same outcome in all these examples?

What you have written on the paper is also counted.

Try to answer the questions and note down the answer on your paper as well.I can safely tell you that the consequences or the outcomes of the previous examples, including your

thoughts about the meaning of the word risk, are something we don't want to happen.

Something wrong and pleasant or dangerous.

Isn't that right?

If so, that means by now you have come to a conclusion and we can define the word risk from that conclusion.

You can now write down the general definition of risk.

Risk is the possibility of something bad or things we don't want to happen.

And here it is.

You have the definition.

However, is this definition a professional one for the word risk?

The simple answer to this question, it is not.

This definition is not a professional definition.

This definition can be used to explain risks for a friend or someone who is not a professional, and

maybe to a client who is new to insurance.

Also, it can be used sometimes to explain risk in simple words.Please avoid using the general definition of the word risk.

We've just learned in front of corporate clients or with professionals, this definition is only general

definition to assist you in the learning process to start understanding the meaning of the word risk.

This is the end of chapter three.

Please review properly before you jump to the next chapter and do not hesitate to ask questions.This is chapter four of this course Risk Definitions and the previous class.

We have defined the word risk in general, and we've highlighted that the general definition can be

used only for casual situations.

In today's chapter, we will learn the technical and professional definitions of risk.

We will define the risk from the point of view of insurance.

What does that mean?

It means, as an insurance professional, how will you define the risk?

And that's what we will learn in this chapter.When it comes to risk definitions, we need to keep in mind a group of definitions because risk has

multiple definitions, and these definitions act as a principle and technical definitions for risk.

Fortunately, we will be explaining each one of these definitions in detail.

So let us start with the first definition.

The possibility of an unfortunate occurrence and unfortunate occurrence could be losing a cell phone,

maybe a fire in a house or a car accident.

It is unfortunate incident and we don't want such incident to happen right at the same time.

It is a possibility.

And that means there is a chance for this incident to happen.

The second definition is doubt concerning the outcome of a situation, and that could be taking an action

in any situation.

And the result of that action is not clear to us as a result of that.

What will happen next from a situation is not clear.

So there is a doubt in this case about the outcome.

The third definition is unpredictability and uncertainty.

Now, these two terms, unpredictability and uncertainty, both act as elements of risk, and we need

to remember that.

An example on this definition could be a fire in a building.

It is unpredictable and uncertain.

We don't know for sure if this incident will happen and when it will happen.

If we knew about it, it would not be a risk anymore and we would have taken some corrective or precaution

actions to avoid such incidents.

The fourth definition is the possibility of loss.

This seems straightforward because risks cause usually losses.

However, the question that might come to mind here what kind of loss we are talking about in this case,

the losses we are talking about here are financial losses.

Let me elaborate by example.

In the example of a car accident, the damage to the car costs money because we need to pay for the

cost of car repair to restore the car to its previous working condition before the accident.

Therefore, in this case we have lost money after doing the repair and that what financial loss means.

I hope everything is clear till now.

The fifth definition is the chance of gain.

In simple words, the hope for a benefit from the outcome of a situation.

For better understanding, let us discuss the example of gambling or investing in stocks.

In gambling.

The situation usually has two outcomes either losing or maybe winning.

The same is applicable for investing in stock market.

The situation has also two outcomes.

Either losing or maybe winning.

In both examples, there is a chance of gain or benefiting from the gambling or investing.

The last definition of risk is danger.

Consequently, we can consider risk as any situation that would cause danger.

It is safe to say that we consider this definition of risk.

A general definition.You need to memorize the technical definitions of risk very well, because you might face a question

sometimes in an interview on how to define risk in a professional way.

And the definitions we have just learned will answer these questions very well.

Also, it will amaze the interviewer upon a step here, we need to know that not every risk can be insured.

Keep that in mind for now.

And don't worry.

We will explain what risk can be insured and what can't in future chapters.

This is the end of chapter four.

Please review properly before you jump to the next chapter and do not hesitate to ask questions.This is chapter five of this course.

Types of risk attitude.

Today we will learn how to define and distinguish between the different types of risk attitude.

And we will explain the importance of being able to do so as an insurance professional.Risk attitude is how we react when revealing or discovering a risk, or how we react when we know risks

surrounding us.

Individuals or business entities split into two groups based on how they react to the risk.

The first group is risk seekers, and the second group is risk averse.

As an insurance professional, we should be skilled in grooming clients this way.

However, we need to understand the difference between these two groups and what each means to be able

to group them properly.Risk seekers are a group of people or business entities who are willing to carry certain risks themselves,

which means they know the risks surrounding them and do not act on it.

What do we mean here by not acting on risk?

It means risk seekers do not reduce the risk, eliminate the risk or transfer the risk to the insurance

company.

Therefore, they might suffer a huge loss in case of drastic events.Risk averse is a group of people or business entities who are not willing to carry certain risks themselves.

And that means they work on revealing the risk surrounding them and act on it.

So how do they act on risk?

They work on reducing the risk, eliminating the risk, or transferring the risk to the insurance company.

Therefore, in case of drastic event, they will not suffer huge losses.To emphasize on understanding the types of risk attitude we will explain risk attitude curve.

As you can see, the risk attitude curve here is based on emotional literacy.

And that means how we feel around risk and how we respond to uncertainty.

From the curve, we can see zero line, low line, high line and extreme line levels.

These are the comfort levels for the upper zone over zero line.

On the other hand, for the lower zone below the zero line, these levels are the discomfort levels.

Both zones are based on the response to uncertainty.

The curve has five sections in respect of risk attitude from zero level going up to low level up to

high level.

This zone over zero line is for risk seeking group.

We need to highlight that from the high level of comfort to the extreme.

This zone is for risk addicted group.

Also, this group is a risk seekers group, but it is difficult to change their attitude around risk

from zero level to low level up to high level below zero line.

This zone is for the risk averse group.

Also, we need to highlight that from the high level of discomfort to the extreme.

This zone is for the risk Paranoid group.

The risk paranoid group is also risk averse, but they always try to reveal risks around them, even

after eliminating or reducing all possible risks.

Until now, we have four sections and the last section is in the middle of the curve where we have a

risk tolerance zone.

This zone is for those who are tolerant around risks and do not feel any comfort or discomfort around

these risks.

And that means they do not respond to uncertainty.To sum up, we have understood and explained both risk seekers and risk averse.

Now we can decide or figure out to which group any potential client belongs based on their attitude

towards risk.

As insurance professionals, we have absolutely no difficulties dealing with a risk averse group because

they come to us seeking risk transfer and they are happy to do it.

The difficulties rely on the risk seeking group because they never had the chance to have someone explain

the consequences of the potential risks that surround them or their businesses.

As a result, it is our job as insurance professionals to influence this attitude.

You might think that what we have just explained seems to be a sales Asian job, but that is not true.

As an insurance professional, you should know the methods available to either eliminate or reduce the

risk.

Finally, we have to influence the attitude of risk seekers to convert them to become risk averse using

the technical knowledge in insurance like surrounding risk revealing or discovery risk control, and

illustrating the consequences of risk in addition to explain the importance of insurance.

This is the end of Chapter five.

Please review properly before you jump to the next chapter and do not hesitate to ask questions.This is chapter six of this course, Risk Management.

Today's chapter is interesting.

Most of us are aware that there is a position in the job market called Risk management or risk manager.

And nowadays the risk manager position has become a trend in many industries.

In addition to insurance industry anyway, what is the risk management?

Who is the risk manager and how does it work?

In today's chapter, we will answer and discuss all these questions.

So we need to keep focused on what we are about to come across.What is the job of a risk manager?

Risk manager's job is to control and reduce the risk surrounding the business entities.

However, what we have mentioned just now, it's not the only job of a risk manager and there might

be a more detailed duties that risk manager carry on a daily basis.

However, the essential duty of risk managers is to control the risk.

Please keep in mind that risk managers not only work in the insurance industry and we see them in many

industries as well as a part of the entity's risk management policy.

For example, some of these industries would be manufacturer of plastic products, petroleum industries,

and we can see risk managers in insurance companies as well.

We can find risk managers almost in every industry nowadays.
Risk management is a set of approaches and steps that reveals and controls surrounding risks.

The last part of the definition is controlling risks, which is a vast term to study.

That's why we have designed a separate chapter related to controlling the risk.

For better understanding, we need to note that in this course we will only learn the concepts and we

will not dive into risk management in detail.

And as entry level insurance professionals, what we will learn in this course is enough for us.

Nevertheless, if you feel you need to know more in this area to become a risk manager, it is a different

scenario.

Send me a question on how to become a risk manager and I will answer your question with the proper path.

Moving on, in this class, as an insurance professional, you need to have some skills in risk management.

Therefore, you need to remember risk management is a set of approaches and steps that reveals and controls

risk.

In other words, we should follow some procedures and take some actions to control the risk.What is the definition of the word control?

Control means the power to influence or direct the behaviors or the course of events.

This is a definition only.

In a future chapter, we will learn in detail about control.

And for now, focus on the definition only.As an insurance professional, you have to know the technical definition of risk management.

Previously, in this chapter, we have defined risk management in a general way, and now we will define

risk management in the technical way.

Or in other words, how an insurance professional would define risk management.

Risk management is identifying, analyzing and controlling the risk surrounding any entity.What we can figure out from the previous technical definition of risk management.

It is clear that there are three terms in the definition ID, analyzing and controlling as a result

of this definition.

We can learn what risk management functions are.

Therefore, the functions are as follows risk identification, risk analysis, and risk control.

In today's chapter, we will not discuss in detail on these functions because we have a separate chapter

to learn more on these functions.It is important to learn about some of the benefits of risk management.

Therefore, the top important risk management benefits are the following Reduce potential losses and

contribute to fewer unwanted surprises.

Helps revealing risks that do not appear to us.

And finally, measure or evaluate the risk.Insurance professionals need to know the general and technical definitions of risk management.

In addition to learn about risk management functions.

This is the end of chapter six.

Please review properly before you jump to the next chapter and do not hesitate to ask questions.


This is chapter seven of this course.

Risk management tasks or risk management functions?

You may call it whatever you want.

Previously, in this course we have defined risk management and we figured the functions of risk management

from the definition as follows risk identification, risk analysis and risk controlling.

In today's chapter, we will answer the questions of what are these functions and what does it means?

Therefore, we will learn in detail on these functions as an insurance professional or risk manager.

You must excel all functions of the risk management.What does risk identification mean?

It means the process of uncovering the surrounding risks or existing or any potential threats.An excellent example of risk identification that will assist us to understand in a better way.

This function would be supermarkets and supermarkets.

One of the most crucial threats to supermarkets is shoplifting.

Shoplifting risk may be existing or maybe potential.

When I say existing, that means there is some actual shoplifting happening at the moment.

And when I say potential, that means shoplifting might happen in the future.

However, the identification process begins when an insurance company sends a surveyor to inspect the

supermarket.

The surveyor must list and identify all the risks and threats surrounding the supermarket in question

and then provide a report after the inspection.

The report would include so many information, which is not part of this course, and we will get the

chance to explain it in more advanced upcoming courses.

However, for now, some of the information in that report might state the type of threats, existing

or potential and some ideas about reducing these risks.

For example, placing CCTV cameras in the supermarket to follow or chase the shoplifter legally.After the identification process.

As a risk manager, you will need to do risk analysis and see what risk analysis method you need to

follow.

A suitable method would be a loss history study.

That is why any insurance company ask for the previous loss history when studying any risk insurer is

trying to cover.

The history of loss could be for the past three years or five years.

It depends on the insurance company.An excellent example on risk analysis would be when insurance companies assess the motor insurance market

for those under 24 years old using loss history method by pooling the data of the past five years of

people under 24 years old, drivers involved in car accidents.

Then, based on certain factors, insurers predict what will approximately happen in the following years

and try to predict losses.The last task in risk management is controlling the risk, and that can be done by enforcing some control

on those risks to minimize or eliminate them.As usual, to support our understanding, we will use an example.

A good example of controlling the risk is when a factory wants to do a hazardous spraying paint job.

And there are two options for doing this job either outsourcing the job to another party and eliminating

the risk because this task becomes their total responsibility, or by doing the job by themselves using

the maintenance team at the factory.

However, there is an important thing we need to remember as risk managers.

The elimination or reduction of risk is subject to the cost of outsourcing.

Therefore, risk manager should study the cost of the worst case scenario.

Might happen in both scenarios.

If the factory did outsource the job.

All the job is done by the maintenance team.

The question here is which way is more economical?

Based on the answer to this question.

Risk manager would make the right call.To sum up from all of what we have mentioned, we need to keep in mind what is the most important idea

in this chapter?

The most important idea is the risk management process.

That's why we summarize the process as per the following one Identification of risk.

Two Analyzing the risk.

Three Controlling the risk.

Four is the risk transfer using insurance.

The last process in the list is the most important process for us.

Transferring the risk to insurance company is the most vital step in risk management, and every risk

manager in any industry will reach to a point that some risks need to be transferred to insurance company

to reduce the amount of expected or potential losses.

If the worst case scenario happen.

We will discuss how the insurance process works in the future.

Chapters.

This is the end of chapter seven.

Please review properly before you jump to the next chapter and do not hesitate to ask questions.

This is chapter eight of this course.

Types of risk Control.

In the previous chapter, we have learned about risk management tasks and we have explained each one

of them in detail.

However, we have stated that control is the most important.

So we have dedicated a separate chapter for it because there are many ways to control a risk.

Risk control depends on the risk situation and consequences.

That is why we group the control as per type.

What we can see in this smart art is the hierarchy of risk control.

From this hierarchy, we can see the first stage of risk control is the elimination, then substitution,

then engineering control and controls that increase awareness, then administrative controls, and then

the personal protection.

Now, on the right side of the hierarchy, we can see an arrow that indicates the effectiveness of the

type of risk control from the least effective to the most effective way to control the risk.

The most effective is from the top elimination, and the least effective is personal protection.

Also on the left side, there is an arrow that indicates the order of implementation.

Therefore, the first type to start with when we want to control risk is the elimination.

And the last to start with is personal protection.Let us start with the most effective risk control method.

Elimination we constantly try in real life to eliminate surrounding risks.

However, sometimes this option is highly expensive or not practical at all to eliminate the risk.

In our previous example, in the previous chapter on factory bending, the elimination option is not

practical because the factory still needs to get the job done and needs to do the painting job.

As a result, the factory is not going to eliminate the risk, but is likely to just transfer the risk

responsibility to a third party.

However, something might go wrong and damage might happen, but this damage will not be the factory's

responsibility.

This seems an elimination, but it is actually a reduction or substitution method to control risk.

Therefore, elimination is not always an option.The second most effective risk control method we will learn is substitution.

If the elimination option is not available, we immediately jump to the next option on the hierarchy,

which is substitution.

In the previous example of factory painting job.

The factory might have outsourced the work to a third party professional.

And by doing so, this technique or method is called substitution or reduction.

And as we have explained earlier, the factory has just to transfer the responsibility of the risk to

a third party and anything would happen would be taken care by the third party professional.The third control type on the hierarchy is engineering control.

In this control type, we try to use the best and the safest technologies available to avoid or control

risks.

Continuing with our example on the painting job, in this case, we make sure that the ventilation system

around the work can filter all the hazards caused by the painting job.The fourth control type on the hierarchy is control that increase awareness and that means provide trainings

and educating the responsible or in charge on the venting job about the surrounding risks and its consequences

to avoid anything might goes wrong because of common workmanship errors related to these types of jobs.The fifth control type on the hierarchy is administrative control.

In this type of control, we impose safety policies and procedures on the way and workflow of the job.

That will help with how the pending job is going to happen.

To avoid anything might go wrong.The last type of risk control is personal protection.

We must understand that humans always come first and the safety of people is the most significant concern.

However, this type of control comes last in the hierarchy.

Why?

It should be at the top of this hierarchy.

Please keep in mind that all the previous measures and controls explained are actually for protecting

people first and then the physical properties.

Therefore, we must note that the hierarchy elements do not work separately.

It is a step by step control that we need to apply in order to get the maximum results desired.Earlier in this chapter, we have explained the types of risk control, and these types can be grouped

into categories based on the type of control action.

Therefore, risk control types can be grouped as per the following Physical control.

Financial control.

And educational control.

And the next lessons we will learn about what each one of them means.

Using examples for better understanding.Physical control could be like placing specific locks on the doors of a factory to reduce the risk of

theft and placing cameras to follow thieves legally installing sprinklers to fight fire in case of a

fire and maintaining the machines to avoid any breakdowns.

These all are considered physical controls.Financial control could be like transferring the risk by either taking out insurance or by entering

into a contract with another party.

Like the example of outsourcing the painting job to a third party.

Another example would be arranging for a security firm to accept the responsibility of cash when it

is under their control.Educational control can be achieved by educating employees or clients on how to avoid or reduce risks.

Also, developing a comprehensive risk culture is considered a key to improve risk awareness and risk

management.At the end of this chapter, you should be able to understand the types of risk control and how can

they be grouped into categories.

In addition to implement the type of risk control in the right order, this is the end of chapter eight.

Please review properly before you jump to the next chapter and do not hesitate to ask questions.In this module, we will discuss risk classification and its vital role to understand what is insurable

and what isn't insurable.

As we get on this module, it's important to remember that not all risks can be covered by insurance

through risk classification.

We gain the principles to distinguish between insurable risks which can be transferred to insurers,

and non insurable risks which can't be transferred to insurers.

This skill is invaluable for insurance professionals, as it allows us to answer crucial questions from

clients about whether a particular risk can be insured or not.

Also, we will explore real life risk examples and the fundamental workings of insurance.

We will work on the definition of insurance and we will illustrate the connection between risk and insurance.

Before we move on in this session, it's crucial to remember that not all risks can be insured by an

insurance company.

In this module, we will explore the classification of risks, which will help us distinguish between

insurable and non insurable risks.

By the end of this module, you will be able to confidently answer the common question of can this risk

be covered by insurance?

Now, the ability to decide whether a risk can be insured or not depends on its classification.

Insurance companies assess risks based on specific criteria and Understanding these classifications

allows insurance companies to make informed decisions.

Without these classifications, there would be no structure in determining what can be insured and at

what cost.

Now let's begin by looking at the different types of risks and how they are categorized in the insurance

industry.

Here we will clear up things that aren't clear about risk classification.

Classification of risks.

Risks fall into three main categories financial and non-financial risks.

Pure and speculative risks.

Fundamental and particular risks.

Each of these categories plays a crucial role in determining whether a risk is insurable or not insurable.

Let's explain these categories in detail and we will start with financial and non-financial risk.

Financial risk A financial risk is any risk that can be measured in monetary terms.

The key feature of financial risks is that their impact or outcome is quantifiable.

Take this example.

If a car is damaged in an accident, the cost of repairs can be calculated in dollars.

Since these risks have measurable financial consequences, insurance companies in this case can evaluate

them and offer coverage for such risks.

Let us take the following examples of financial risks for better clarity.

Material damage to property due to fire.

If a house catches fire, the cost of repairs or rebuilding can be estimated in dollars.

Damage to a ship from a tornado.

Insurance companies assess the ship's value and the damage caused in dollars.

Vehicle damage in a road accident.

Car insurance policies exists to cover such risks.

Property theft, such as motorcycles or cash theft, can be measured in terms of financial loss, making

it insurable.

Since we've established that these risks can be quantified and compensated for financially, then they

fall under the category of insurable risks.

Non-financial risk.

Non-financial risks, on the other hand, are different because they can't be measured in monetary terms

because they often involve personal preferences, emotions, or experiences that hold sentimental value

rather than monetary value.

Insurance policies do not cover these type of risks because their impact or outcome is subjective and

can be assigned to a fixed monetary value.

Let us take the following examples of non-financial risks for clarity.

Choosing a car's brand or color.

The choice itself is a personal preference and doesn't involve financial loss.

Selecting items from a restaurant menu.

The decision doesn't result in a quantifiable loss, since we've established that these risks do not

involve measurable financial consequences.

Then they aren't insurable.

Pure and speculative risk.

Pure risk A pure risk has only one possible outcome a loss or no loss.

There is no opportunity for financial gain.

This type of risk is the foundation of the insurance industry, because insurance companies only cover

risks where they can compensate for losses, rather than the risks where the insured party could also

make a profit.

Let us take the following examples of pure risks, where there is only loss and no gain from their outcome.

Fire damage to a factory building.

There is no scenario where fire damage results in financial gain.

Fire.

Damage to stock loss of goods means financial loss, making it an insurable risk.

Machinery breakdown.

If a machine stops working, production also stops and leading to a loss.

Property theft.

The victim of theft suffers a direct financial loss, and since the pure risks always result in loss,

they fall into the category of insurable risks.

Speculative risk A speculative risk involves both the possibility of gain and loss.

These risks are linked to a decision making and market conditions, which means individuals or businesses

have control over outcomes.

Since insurance covers risks beyond individual control.

Speculative risks are not insurable.

Examples of speculative risks.

To clarify investing in stocks, there is a chance of both profit and loss, so it's not insurable.

Pricing a product competitively.

Businesses take risks when setting prices, but these risks are within their control.

Adapting to changing market trends.

Business decisions involve risk, but they also provide opportunities for profit.

Therefore, speculative risks can result in profit or loss, and they are based on individual decisions.

So as a result, they are not insurable risks.

Fundamental and particular risk.

Fundamental risk A fundamental risk is one that affects large groups of people or entire regions.

These risks are often caused by external factors beyond the human control, such as natural disasters,

economic crises, or political instability.

Because of their widespread impact or outcome, which no insurance company can afford to compensate

for, these risks are generally not insurable under standard policies.

Let us take the following examples of fundamental risks.

Political risks.

Changes in government policies or civil unrest affects entire populations.

Natural disasters, earthquakes, hurricanes and floods impact large areas.

Nuclear events.

Radiation Exposure and nuclear accidents affect regions, not just individuals.

Since fundamental risks have widespread consequences, they are typically uninsurable.

However, in this type of risks, you will encounter some exceptions for this rule, and insurance companies

might cover such risks on exceptional basis.

Particular risk A particular risk, on the other hand, affects individuals or specific groups rather

than an entire regions.

These risks result from human actions or localized events, and they are typically insurable.

Examples of particular risks for better clarity.

Fire and explosions.

If a single building catches fire, insurance can cover the damages.

Burglary and theft.

These are localized events affecting individuals.

Machinery breakdown.

Businesses can insure equipment against failure.

Motor accidents.

Car insurance policies cover accident related damage.

Bridge collapses.

Engineering failures can be covered by insurance since particular risks are localized and quantifiable.

In this case, they fall under the category of insurable risks.

Now to summarize, we can categorize risks into two broad groups insurable and non insurable risks.

Insurable risks include financial risks measurable losses pure risks.

Only losses.

Possible particular risks localized and specific.

non insurable risks include non-financial risks, subjective emotional, speculative risks, profit

or loss.

Possible fundamental risks.

Widespread and controllable understanding.

Risk classification is essential for both insurance professionals and clients because it helps to determine

what risks can be covered.

How insurance companies assess premiums the terms and conditions applied to coverage.

By now, you should feel confident in identifying and classifying different types of risks and understanding

their role in respect of insurance and their insurability.

In this session we will explore some everyday risk examples, particularly focusing on the risks that

come with owning a car.

By the end of this session, you will have a solid understanding of how insurance helps protect you

from these risks and how the overall insurance system works.

So let us start with some common car related risks.

Owning a car gives you freedom and convenience, but it also comes with several risks.

Let's go over some of the most common ones.

Theft.

Imagine waking up one morning and finding your car missing.

Car theft is a serious risk, and even if you have the best security system, There is always a chance

that someone could steer your car accidents.

Even if you are the most careful driver, accidents can still happen.

Another driver might run a red light or road condition might cause you to lose control.

The result?

A damaged car.

Potential injuries and financial losses.

Injury to others.

If you are involved in an accident, it's not just about your car.

Passengers, pedestrians, or other drivers might get injured and you could be held responsible for

their medical bills or other damages.

Damage to your car.

Your vehicle could get damaged and not just in an accident, but due to other causes like vandalism,

extreme weather, or even hit and run situation.

All of these risks come with financial burdens, repairs, medical expenses, legal fees and even replacing

a stolen car can be expensive.

And this is where insurance comes in.

So what does insurance do?

Insurance is a risk transfer mechanism.

Instead of facing these financial risks alone, you can transfer them to an insurance company in exchange

for a fee known as a premium.

Think of it as a safety net.

You pay a premium to the insurer, and in return, the insurer agrees to cover certain risks if something

unexpected happens.

This agreement is detailed in a document called an Insurance Policy.

This policy will outline the terms of your coverage, the types of risks included, and any conditions

or limitations to the cover.

So if you ever need to make a claim, this policy document is going to be the proof that you are protected.

Now we understand how insurance works.

After this explanation, we can formulate a definition for insurance and we can answer an important

question of what is insurance?

In a very simple way, insurance is the process of an insurer accepting potential unknown risks in exchange

for a premium.

It's as simple as that.

But don't forget this definition.

It's a common question in an entry level interviews, so make sure you memorize it well.

So once more, insurance is the process of an insurer accepting potential unknown risks in exchange

for a premium.

And you need to remember that those unknown risks should fall under the category of insurable risks.

As we've established in earlier session, the relationship between risk and insurance.

Now, let us explain how the relationship between risk and insurance works.

Risk and insurance move in opposite directions.

The more risks you face, the more financial burden you might carry.

But by purchasing insurance, you can shift those risks to the insurer.

And this allows you to go about your daily life with peace of mind, knowing that if something happens,

you won't have to bear the full financial weight alone.

To illustrate this, look at the image shown here.

As established earlier, risk and insurance moves in different directions.

Is on one side.

You have risks.

Accidents, theft, damage, liability.

On the other side, you have insurance.

And if you find yourself in the path of risk, you can buy insurance to switch directions.

This means you are transferring the financial burden of those risks to the insurer by purchasing an

insurance policy.

It's important to remember that insurance doesn't just apply to cars.

It's a vast industry that covers many aspects of life, such as health insurance helps cover medical

expenses when you get sick or injured.

Property insurance protects your home business or valuable possessions from damage or theft.

Business insurance helps business owners protect against risks like lawsuits, natural Disasters or

employee related issues, and many more.

No matter what type of insurance you have.

The fundamental concept remains the same.

You pay a premium and in return, the insurer takes on some of your risks.

Why insurance is important for everyone.

Now let's take a moment and think what would happen if insurance didn't exist.

Imagine if every time you had a car accident, you had to pay for repairs out of your own pocket, or

if someone sued you for an injury and you had to cover the legal fees and medical costs yourself.

For most people, these unexpected expenses would be financially devastating.

That's why insurance is so important.

It provides financial stability and security, ensuring that people aren't wiped out by unforeseen events.

It allows us to go about our daily lives without constantly worrying about worst case scenarios.

Let's have some additional insurance terms you should know.

To fully understand insurance, there are a few key terms you should be familiar with.

For now, premium the amount of money you pay to the insurance company for coverage.

Deductible or excess the amount you must pay out from your pocket before the insurance company starts

covering the cost.

Claim a request you submit to your insurance company to receive compensation after an incident.

Coverage.

Limit the maximum amount the insurer will pay for a covered loss.

In short, is the individual or entity who are covered under the insurance policy insurer is the insurance

company who cover the insured.

These terms will help you better understand the basics of insurance and understand how different policies

work.

However, there are many key terms out there, but we will cover them step by step.

It's important to note that insurance is not just an expense, it's an investment in financial security,

and it allows individuals and businesses to take calculated risks without the fear of catastrophic losses.

And they do that by understanding the risks they face and the role of insurance.

They can make smarter decisions to protect themselves and their assets.In this module, I'll explain.

Everything is there to explain about the principles of insurance.

I can't stress enough how critical these principles are as they form the very foundation of the insurance

industry.

These principles are not just abstract concepts, they are the basis on which the entire insurance system

is built.

They play a crucial role in guiding the relationship between insurance companies and policyholders,

and ensuring that both parties understand their rights and responsibilities.

So whether you are an industry professional or an individual seeking insurance coverage, a clear understanding

of these principles is essential.

The principles of insurance are the key to maintaining trust, fairness and transparency in the insurance

market.

These principles provide a clear framework for how insurance works, why it's necessary, and how it

benefits all stakeholders.

As I explain each of these principles, you will be provided with a comprehensive knowledge of their

significance and practical applications in the insurance industry, which will help you eventually to

make informed decisions and explore the insurance field with confidence.

Let us start with this interesting module, and let us break down the principles of insurance into an

easy to understand concepts.In this session, I will try to break down what insurable interest is, why it matters, and how it

applies in real life.

At the end of this session, you will manage to have a clear understanding on this principle and you

will be able to get why this principle is a major and fundamental part of any insurance contract.

Insurable interest is a basic principle in insurance, and it means that a person or entity can only

take out an insurance policy on something.

If this person or entity would suffer a financial loss when that thing is damaged.

Let me clarify here.

You can't insure Sure something, unless you have a legitimate reason or a valid reason to do so.

This means you must stand to lose something if an insured event happens and damaged the thing you want

to insure.

The main objective of insurable interest is to prevent insurance from being used for gambling or fraudulent

purposes.

And without this principle, people could take out policies on things they have no connection to and

profit from someone else's misfortune.

This would go against the purpose of insurance, which is to provide a financial protection rather than

a way to make money from losses.

The principle of insurable interest has a way of working, and this way ensures that there is a legal

and financial connection between the person seeking insurance.

And we call this person the insured.

And what this person or insured wants to buy insurance for.

And we call the thing we want to buy insurance for is the subject matter.

This connection is legal and financial between the insured and the subject matter.

Now there are few related terms in this context.

I need to clarify before I proceed any further to make sure you understand this principle correctly.

And these terms are subject matter, legal relationship and financial value.

Now I need you to get something here.

Without those three terms, there is no insurable interest.

What I'm trying to say.

These three works together as a group of elements or features of the insurable interest, and you need

to think of them as conditions which they have to be met before establishing insurable interest.

If any of these fails to pass, will result in the failure of establishing the insurable interest.

This means there will be no valid insurable interest if one of them is not met.

This still sounds confusing.

Don't worry, I will clear it up after explaining each of these terms in detail.

The first condition is.

Subject matter.

Subject matter refers to the thing or to the event we are ensuring.

This could be your car, house, property, shop, liability and so on.

Many things can be insured today.

Also, subject matter refers to the financial interest of the insured has in the subject matter, or

in other words, the financial interest of the insured in the thing this insured is going to buy insurance

for.

Still confusing.

Okay, let me put it this way.

Subject matter is the thing we are insuring and we have a financial interest in this thing.

Subject matter is the first condition in the insurable interest.

You need to remember if there is no subject matter, there will be no valid insurable interest.

But when and how subject matter will not be valid.

Let us go back a bit to what subject matter means.

Subject matter, we agreed, is the thing we are insuring and we have a financial interest in it.

Now, subject matter will not be valid if the opposite is true, which is if we want to insure something

and we don't have a financial interest in it.

This means there will be no subject matter.

A good example would be me wanting to insure your mobile or the laptop you are watching this video from.

Okay.

I want to insure your laptop or mobile.

But what's the financial interest I have in your phone?

If you break it or damage it.

I will not lose anything.

You will lose.

So it's better you do buy an insurance for it, not me.

Because you are the one who has a financial interest in your phone.

And if it's damaged, you would lose money either for Replacing or repairing this phone.

Moving on to the second condition in the insurable interest legal relationship.

This refers to the relationship between the insured and the subject matter of the insurance, which

is the thing we are going to insure and we have a financial interest in it.

Okay.

We've already established that.

Now the legal relationship.

This relationship must be recognized under the law.

If this relationship is not recognized under the law.

That means there is no insurable interest.

But how this relationship would be recognized under the law.

A good example here would be ownership or title, deed or car registration.

These are all documents that are considered legal documents that prove your legal relationship in the

subject matter it refers to, like in the case of car registration document, this document approve.

You are the owner of the car and this establish a legal relationship between you and the subject matter.

In this case the car.

All right.

Remember legal relationship is the second condition in the insurable interest.

The third condition in the insurable interest is financial value.

This refers again to the subject matter of insurance or the thing we are ensuring this thing must have

a financial value or can be measured in monetary terms.

If there is no financial value or the thing we are insuring can't be measured in money.

There will be no insurable interest.

Can you think of something that can't be measured in monetary terms?

Financial value is the last condition in the insurable interest.

I know this might be still confusing, but once we discuss the following example, it will clear out

this confusion totally.

Just bear with me.

So let us use a simple example to illustrate how insurable interest is established.

Here is a little story.

Jack is going to own a car and he wants to insure it.

In this scenario for Jack, the car is the thing he wants to insure.

Obviously, Jack will pay money to own this car.

So Jack will have a financial interest in this car.

So this establishes a subject matter for Jack.

After Jack did pay the money to own the car, eventually he became the legal owner of this car.

So Jack will have a title in his name for this car.

This ownership is the legal relationship which is recognized under the law.

No doubt here.

Jack bought the car with money.

This means the value of the car can be measured in monetary terms.

So it has financial value.

Look at how all the conditions are checked in this example.

And this will result in establishing an insurable interest between Jack and the car.

Okay.

Let's move on.

Since we've succeeded in establishing insurable interest in the car example, now we can confidently

define insurable interest.

Insurable interest is a situation where the insured has a lawful or legal relationship with the subject

matter they want to insure, and this relationship must be supported by a financial interest.

So this means for insurable interest to exist, the following must be met.

Insured must have a legal relationship or ownership with the subject matter, and insured must have

a financial interest in the subject matter.

But wait, there is one thing is missing here, right?

As we've explained earlier, three things need to be met to establish insurable interest, and one is

missing here.

Financial value.

Well, we can assume that the financial interest means there is a financial value for the thing we have

a financial interest in.

In this case, we can just say both aspects of legal and financial relationships are collectively referred

to as insurable interest, or they establish insurable interest.

The bottom line here, the principle of insurable interest ensures that insurance makes sense.

You can't insure something unless you legally own it and have a financial stake in it.

This should be clear by now.

Yet there are situations where people might think they have an insurable interest, but actually they

don't.

Such situations are, for example, a friend's property.

You may care about your friend's house or car, but if you don't own it or you have a financial stake

in it, you can't insure it.

speculative insurance.

In this situation, you can take out an insurance policy on something just because you think it might

increase in value, or because you hope to benefit from its loss.

However, there are instances where insurable interest exists even if the insurer doesn't fully own

the thing the insured is buying insurance for.

And there are four situations.

The first situation is part or joint owners.

If someone is a joint or part owner of a property, they possess insurable interest equivalent to their

financial stake in that part of ownership.

The second situation is agents.

An agent can secure an insurance on behalf of the insured or principal who holds insurable interest

in something.

The third situation is custodians.

Custodians temporarily hold the property for the legal owners.

They have insurable interest because they might need to replace the property in their custody if it's

damaged or stolen.

Examples of this situation include for repairs and garage owners.

The last situation is tenants.

Even though tenants don't own the property they live in, they still have insurable interest because

if the property sustains damage, tenants may be liable for repair costs.

The requirement for insurable interest is not just a moral principle, but also a legal one.

In many countries, laws are in place to ensure that people can take out insurance policies without

proving insurable interest.

Insurance companies require documentations to show ownership, relationship or financial dependence

before issuing a policy.

If insurable interest isn't present in an insurance contract, the policy can be considered void.

This means no claim can be made this way.

Protects insurance companies from fraudulent claims and ensures that insurance serves its true purpose.

Providing financial security.

The aim of this lecture is, as insurance professionals, our job is to make sure that there is a valid

insurable interest before moving any further in the insurance process.

Hello everyone and welcome to this section of the course.

Today I will demonstrate how insurable interest is established in real life.

The purpose of this section is to show you how we collect certain documents to find out what is the

insurable interest, or if there is an insurable interest or not.

To recap on our previous section on insurable interest, we agreed that to establish insurable interest,

we require two main things.

One is legal relationship and financial interest.

Now the legal and financial interests should be connected to a particular thing, which is subject matter.

So the subject matter is the thing we are ensuring we should have legal relationship with the subject

matter and financial interest means we have to lose if subject matter is damaged.

If something happened to the subject matter and we didn't lose anything, so there is no financial interest.

Also, if there is no legal relationship with the subject matter like ownership or custody or type of

legal relationship, which we discussed in the previous section, again, insurable interest will not

be established.

So two things to be checked.

Now in real life, verifying or establishing insurable insurable interest is done by requesting set

of documents from the insured or the person or entity.

They are applying for a request of insurance and they want to get an insurance code, then converting

this code to an insurance policy.

So this set of documents give us an indication or hints on the possibility of the availability of insurable

interest or not.

Now I will explain how insurable interest is established using two examples.

So I will use two examples.

The first example is about a person or individual means like me you okay and I will use for this person

or individual motor insurance cover.

And another example would be for an entity or business.

And this business is requesting a par.

Now the Par is an abbreviation for property or risk insurance.

So this is stands for property A for all and R for risk.

So using these two examples I will demonstrate how we establish insurable interest for individuals and

entities.

Now the first example on motor insurance what happens is first we will ask for a set of documents from

the insured.

And these documents are an ID and a vehicle registration card.

This is a card that states the owner name okay.

The details of the car and and the department or the authority who license this card.

So these two documents actually help us to verify the insurable interest.

Now, for any type of insurance, we require subject matter.

We need an insured.

Then we will try to connect this subject matter with the insured and finding out if there is a legal

and financial relationship.

And our motor example, a person is, uh, owning a car and he wants to insure his car.

In this example, the car is the subject matter and the insured is the person himself is the insured.

We need to figure out the legal and financial relationship.

Using or requesting set of documents.

First I would request for an ID to identify person.

Then I need to find out what is the legal relationship now?

Legal relationship is in for the subject matter.

In this case will be verified using the VRC.

In the VRC there would be a have have a name and a car.

Details.

This type of documents give us an indication of the legal relationship recognized under the law.

So this an indication or confirms that the condition legal relationship is true.

Now the financial interest is obvious.

Very obvious here because the person himself is the owner of the car.

And obviously this car is the subject matter.

And if this subject matter got damaged, the person or the insured would suffer losses means he will

lose money.

So this establishes a financial interest in this case.

We also you will see in the next few seconds that also we request a driving license.

In addition to the documents I mentioned here, driving license is actually also a requirement in motor

insurance to verify if this person actually drives, but this doesn't have anything to do with the legal

and financial relationship, but in case the identification is or the ID card is not available, a driving

license is actually considered as a sort of ID, which also can be a supportive document to establish

subject matter.

So this one here is an identification card.

The identification card is actually gives a name and location.

Date of birth.

The most important is the legal name.

This is an ID okay.

This is a VRC vehicle registration card.

Where?

Here.

The name will match the name here.

So the name here, full name here will match the name here on the VRC card.

And this will establish legal ownership for a subject matter like a car.

If this car gets damaged, it's usually will cost to lose money.

If this subject matter got damaged.

So there is a financial interest here.

Now this is a driving license.

Also, the driving license will include the name and the type of cars he can drive.

We can use this also as a form of ID to support if this ID is not available to support establishing

insurable interest.

After establishing insurable interest, we issue an insurance policy and we repeat the information.

Or we add the name again to our insurance policy and we add the details of the vehicle, which is also

available in the VRC.

We repeat those things in the insurance policy, showing that this person has a legal relationship and

financial interest in the subject matter he's insuring, and in this case is the car.

Now for the second example to establish is using a PA Our cover or property insurance for an entity.

So usually just to clarify.

Usually for a business entity we request for first business license and subject matter details in case

of business or entity.

Actually they hold multiple or many subject matters and they included in one cover.

This is PR is one of the example that you would have, or the insured or the entity would have multiple

multiple subject matters and they want to insure it under PR coverage or PR insurance request.

So we would require business license and subject matter details.

Now the subject matter details are actually can be collected using something we call a proposal form.

So this is a proposal form I'm not going to explain the whole proposal form.

But I'm going to show you what we collect here.

So the proposal here means the name.

So in this case it's a business name x y z for example P.O. box and a telephone number.

Then we will have some description on the thing or the subject matter.

This insured wants to insure let's say it's a manufacturing unit for plastics.

Let's say okay.

This is only gives a description only as a definition of of the subject matter.

This is just a description.

Now here there is a few questions about the risk assessment.

I'm not going to go through this now.

This is where we start indicating the financial value a building this is a property damage okay.

A building would cost let's say a million.

Furniture and fixtures would be 200 k USD.

Plants and machinery.

It would be, let's say 2 million.

A stock of 1 million.

Whatever.

Okay, TPL here is third party liability.

Okay.

This is also some sort of subject matter.

We indicated as an example in our previous section that many things can be insured and one of them is

liabilities.

So let's say it's a 1 million or 2 million.

The total sum insured, which is the value the financial value of all subject matters.

So let's say this comes to 6.2 million total.

Subject matter here we give financial details.

Here we give business name.

Now I have to connect this subject matter.

Okay.

There is a financial interest here.

It's clearly indicated.

Okay.

If the building got damaged.

Absolutely.

This business would suffer a loss if this plants and machinery here got damaged.

And absolutely the business will lose Money.

So we established financial interest from the proposal form itself.

Now I have to connect the business name to a legal relationship with the subject matter, and this way

can be verified using a business license.

So this is the business license.

Business license would include the business name x, y, z okay.

Business location.

Location is also can be matched with the location in the proposal form.

Now when this business brings the proposal form and he mentioned I have asset 234 to be insured.

There is no set of an ownership documents to connect between the business and the subject matter.

Invoices might be in place, which is can be as a document proof that this business bought.

So this is where utmost good faith comes in.

And the next section you will learn about this principle.

And in business, sometimes we take that declared subject matter in the proposal form as true from the

business, and we issue the policy based on that.

Usually a survey depends on the risk.

A survey can be done and we can verify that this plant or machinery is in the manufacturing unit.

And we we look into the records of the business to find out that is actually filed in their business.

But sometimes it's it's difficult to know if the subject matter written here in the proposal form,

let's say an example.

Just to clarify, if the some part of the furniture, let's say there is a chair which was bought by

the manager to use it himself, and for somehow the value was accounted in here.

So let's say we we included here a chair value in the furniture and fixture which was already Both by

the manager who is managing the manufacturing unit.

This has nothing to do with the business assets.

It's not connected.

There is no no interest in that chair.

If this chair got damaged, the actual person who would lose money is the manager of the manufacturing

unit.

So at the beginning of quoting or issuing an insurance policy, we take this declaration from the businesses

as true, under the utmost good faith principle that this is this is something.

Yes, true.

However, it's worth mentioning that these kind of things is actually confirmed at the time of claim.

At the time of claim, insurable interest is confirmed.

We did the due diligence at the beginning of, you know, issuing the the insurance policy.

We did a due diligence and at the time of claim, Insurable interest will be confirmed.

And this is where a professional called loss adjuster will verify this subject matter.

In most cases, most of the time there will be no issue.

So that is all for today.

This is how we establish insurable interest, have subject matter, and we have to find out that there

is financial and legal relationship between subject matter and the insured.

And we, as we've said, we request some set of documents to verify the insurable interest at the beginning.

But at the end and at the time of claim, this will be confirmed.

Thank you very much, everyone, and see you in the next session.

In this session, I will explain what proximate cause means, why it is important, and how it applies

in real life insurance claims.

At the end of this session, you will have a clear understanding of how insurance companies determine

whether a loss is covered under an insurance policy or not.

Proximate cause is a vital principle in insurance.

This principle helps to determine whether an insurer is liable for a claim or not.

The principle of proximate cause refers to the closest, most direct, or most effective cause of a

loss in insurance.

When a multiple events lead to damage or loss, the proximate cause is the one aspect that is primarily

responsible Possible for the outcome of this damage or loss.

Let me clarify.

Not every event that happens before a loss is considered the cause of the loss.

In insurance, the insurance company looks at which event sets everything in motion and directly led

to the damage.

If that event is covered under the policy terms and conditions, then the insurance company will be

liable and pay the claim.

If this event is not covered under the Policy Terms and conditions, then the claim may be denied.

The proximate cause is often described as the first cause of loss or damage.

And this cause sets in motion a chain of events leading to a particular result.

In simpler way, proximate cause is the primary reason for an incident.

We need an example here to understand this principle.

All right.

If a fire breaks out due to an electrical component fault, and then this fire spreads to the other

parts of a building.

The fire here is the proximate cause of the damage.

If the fire is covered under the policy terms and conditions, the insurer will pay for the losses.

However, if the fire was caused by an excluded event in the policy terms and conditions such as war

or intentional fire by the policy holder, the claim may not be payable.

This is a straightforward example to determine the proximate cause.

Let me explain the proximate cause concept with a more complicated example.

Imagine a high speed wind knocks down a tree next to this tree, a car parked nearby, causing the tree

to fall on the car and damaged it.

As a result of this damage, the car starts leaking petrol.

This petrol leakage eventually ignites due to some heat source leading to a fire.

This fire spreads out and burns the house nearby.

In this scenario, what is the proximate cause of the loss that resulted in the burning of the house?

Take a moment and think.

All right.

If you haven't reached to an answer, that's okay.

If you did reach an answer, that's great.

But as your answer, the fire.

If so, unfortunately, that is not right.

I will let you know why.

Just bear with me.

The proximate cause in this A situation is the high speed wind.

You might ask yourself why?

Let us go back a little in this lecture.

We have said earlier, proximate cause is often described as the first cause of a loss or damage.

And this cause sets in motion a chain of events leading to a particular result.

In the same way, the high speed wind is the initial force that led to a sequence of events.

Wind.

Tree.

Damaged car.

Petrol leak.

Fire.

In this way, we understand the proximate cause in case of a chain of events involved.

But is every chain of events will be treated the same way?

The short answer is no.

And you will know why in a few seconds.

The principle of proximate cause includes additional aspects in its way of working.

This aspect states that the motion of the chain of events, which started by the cause of loss, must

be without the intervention of any force which is started and working actively from a new and independent

source.

What this means.

All right, consider this variation in our previous example to understand this aspect.

After the sequence of events with the falling tree example and before the petrol ignites from the heating

source, a fire starts in the house due to a gas leak from the stove.

This fire is unrelated to the high speed wind.

It started from a new and independent source.

In this case, the proximate cause of the fire in the house is the gas leak from the stove, which,

as we've established, a new and independent source.

It's not linked to the fallen tree or the petrol leak.

It's important to differentiate between proximate cause and remote cause.

Proximate cause is the main effective cause that directly leads to a loss, while remote cause is an

earlier event that may have contributed to the loss but is not the direct reason for it.

Here are a few examples for better clarity on proximate cause and remote cause.

Fire in a building.

Proximate cause is a faulty electrical wire.

Sparks and ignites a fire.

The fire spreads and destroys the building.

Remote cause is the building's wiring wasn't inspected for several years, leading to undetected damage.

This contributed to the fire, but it wasn't the direct cause.

Slip and fall accident.

Proximate cause A person slips on a wet floor in a supermarket and gets injured.

The immediate cause of the fall is the wet floor.

Remote cause.

The store employee mopped the floor but forgot to put up a wet floor sign.

This contributed to the accident, but it wasn't the direct cause.

Flood damage to occur.

Proximate cause.

A car is flooded in water due to heavy rainfall, causing damage to its engine.

Remote cause.

The car owner parked in a low lying area prone to flooding.

The action of the car owner increased the risk.

But it wasn't the direct cause of the damage.

Medical malpractice case.

Proximate cause.

Assertion makes an error during surgery, causing complications to the patient.

Remote cause.

The patient had an undiagnosed pre-existing condition.

This condition made the surgery riskier, but it wasn't the direct cause of the complication.

I know this seems a complicated task and not easy sometimes to determine the proximate cause.

However, understanding how this principle works at this stage is vital.

With experience and deep analysis, the task becomes easier.

So if you find yourself not quite there yet, that's okay.

Believe me, I have been there.

And you need to know that experts spends big time analyzing complicated claims to come up with a decision

on the proximate cause.

Anyway, it's recommended to come back to this session 1 or 2 times to retain as much as possible from

the information provided here.

Also, I want you to know that many countries, insurance laws and regulations recognize proximate cause

as a crucial factor in claim settlements.

When a claim is disputed, courts often analyze what the most effective cause of a loss was, and even

insurance companies use expert investigations to establish proximate cause before deciding on claims

payout.

If there are multiple causes leading to a loss, insurers may look at whether covered and uncovered

causes contributed.

If the covered cause is dominant, they may pay the claim, Acclaim.

But if the uncovered cause is dominant, they may reject the claim.

The main objective of the proximate cause is to help us determine whether an insurance company should

pay a claim or not.

It also ensures that only direct and effective causes are considered when assessing losses.

By focusing on the most dominant cause, insurance companies can fairly decide which claims are valid.

Keep in mind, understanding this principle helps policyholders know what to expect when filing a claim

and prevents insurance from being misused.

It also ensures that insurance companies operate fairly and sustainably.

In this session, I will explain what contribution means, why it is important, and how it works in

different insurance situations.

At the end of this session, you will have a clear understanding of how multiple insurers share responsibility

for a claim.

When more than one policy covers the same risk, the principle of contribution applies.

When the same property or subject matter is insured by more than one insurance policy and a claim arises.

The principle of contribution ensures that the insured can't claim the full amount of loss from multiple

insurers, and profit from the insurance.

What happens instead?

It all insurers involved.

Share the loss in proportion to the coverage they provide.

Sounds confusing.

Let me put it in a different way.

The principle of contribution prevents a person from making a financial gain by claiming the full amount

of loss from multiple insurance companies.

What happens instead?

Each insurer pays only its fair share.

A good example here would be if a person insures his house against fire with two different insurance

companies, and then the house catches fire.

This person can't claim the full amount of repair or rebuild from both insurers.

Instead, each insurance company contributes a part of the payment based on the sum insured under their

respective policies.

Clear now.

Maybe one more example will clear the water.

A good example for better clarity would be when considering two common insurance policies.

Household insurance and travel insurance.

I believe you've heard of them before, so let us use them to understand the principle of contribution

and its way of working.

Household insurance and travel insurance.

Both policies often cover personal belongings.

And let us use a laptop as one of the well known personal belongings to serve this example.

Now, let us say Jack is going on a car trip with his laptop, and this laptop is insured under both

his household and travel insurance policies for a certain limit of compensation.

Jack bought his household insurance policy from a insurer.

And he bought his travel insurance policy from the insurer during Jack trip.

A theft incident happens while the car parked in common parking area.

The thief broke Jack's car window, snatched the laptop from the car and ran away.

This resulted in the loss of the laptop for Jack.

Since the laptop is insured under both his household and travel policies, in this situation, both

insurance companies, a insurer and B insurer are liable for covering the laptop cost.

So Jack filed a claim with both insurance companies A and B, claiming a compensation for the laptop.

Each insurer now will decide its proportionate payment based on the sum insured Ensured of its sold

policy to Jack.

Eventually, Jack will get his compensation for the laptop cost.

In this way, laptop cost equals insurer a share of the laptop claim plus insurer B share of the laptop

claim.

The important point to remember is that even when multiple policies cover the same item, Jack can't

claim more than the actual cost or value of the laptop.

What happens instead?

The total cost will be divided proportionally between these policies according to specific terms outlined

in each policy.

A question may arises here why can't Jack claim twice and get two times the value of the laptop?

Since there are two policies cover the loss.

The answer is he can't benefit and make financial gain from this claim.

And the reason will be clarified in detail when we discuss the principle of indemnity in the next session

in this module.

All right.

We need to learn that the principle of contribution is important for several reasons.

Contribution prevents overcompensation, and it ensures that an insured person doesn't receive more

than the actual loss claimed.

Maintaining the purpose of insurance as protection, rather than a way to make money, also distributes

risk fairly and allows insurance companies to share the burden of a claim preventing any single insurer

from paying more than its fair share.

Finally encourages fairness in the insurance industry and ensures that policyholders don't misuse insurance

by buying multiple policies and expecting full payouts from all insurers.

Without this principle, some people might intentionally take multiple insurance policies and try to

claim the full amount from each insurer, leading to unfair payouts and financial strain on insurance

companies.

Now, you might ask yourself a critical question here.

When does the principle of contribution apply?

Take a moment to think of this question.

Contribution applies when the following conditions are met.

More than one policy exists.

The insured must have two or more insurance policies covering the same risk.

The policies.

Cover the same subject matter and insurable interest.

The insured must have.

Both policies insure the same item.

The policies cover the same peril.

The loss must be caused by an event covered under all policies.

The insured hold.

The policies are taken out by the same person.

The insured must be the policyholder.

Under all the insurance contracts.

Finally, neither policy should include any clause that waive the principle of contribution.

If these conditions are met and the loss happens, the insurer will apply the principle of contribution

to determine how much each company should pay to understand each of the triggers mentioned earlier.

Let us break them down as per the following.

Using the previous example of jack laptop theft loss.

More than one policy exists in Jack's situation.

There was two policies in place household and travel insurance.

The policies cover the same subject matter and insurable interest.

Jack laptop is the same subject matter in both policies.

The policies cover the same peril.

The peril.

Theft, which is the cause of the loss, is the same peril in this incident.

And both policies in place cover the same peril.

The policies are taken out by the same person.

The owner of the laptop, Jack, is the same insured and he is the policyholder under both insurance

policies.

Neither policy should include any clause that waive the principle of contribution.

Okay, here we need to elaborate a little.

Some policies in the insurance industry modifies the principle of contribution by adding the clause

of non contribution.

This clause means the policy that holds such clause will not be applicable to any claim for which the

insured is eligible for indemnity under another policy.

Meaning this policy will not share any claim that is covered under another policy.

In the case of contribution, however, in the Jack laptop example, such clause didn't exist.

So contribution will still be applicable.

Now we've reached to the interesting part.

And this is where the payoff is how contribution is applied or calculated.

In case of a claim where two or more policy is in place, there is a formula used by insurers to decide

their contribution amount of the loss which will be paid to the insured.

And this calculated amount, known as proportionate contribution.

Proportionate contribution means each insurer pays a portion of the claim based on the sum insured under

their policy.

The formula used is the amount paid by each insurer equals sum insured by that insurer divided by total

sum insured from all policies times loss.

Amount.

Example.

Suppose a person insures their house for fire damage with two insurance companies.

Company A policy covers $50,000.

Company P policy covers $100,000.

So the total coverage in this case $150,000.

This house suffers fire damage worth of $30,000 in repair cost.

A claim is filed by the insured, and now the contribution from each insurer after applying our formula

would be.

Amount paid by each insurer equals.

Sum insured by that insurer divided by the total sum insured from all policies.

Times loss company.

A sum insured is $50,000 divided by $150,000.

The total sum insured times $30,000 equals $10,000.

Company B $100,000 divided by 150 times 30 equals $20,000.

Loss amount.

This way, both insurers A and B share the claim loss fairly and compensate the insured accordingly.

In some cases, all insurers may agree to contribute equally regardless of the sum insured under each

policy.

However, this is less common and usually applies when all policies have the same sum insured, but

it is worth mentioning in case you came across such behavior, and this behavior or way is termed as

equal contribution.

Now the previous formula is valid if average close isn't triggered.

But what if average close arised.

In this case, we need a more sensitive formula to accurately decide the contribution amount.

The formula is.

Amount paid by each insurer equals.

Policy sum insured divided by the total value at risk times.

Loss amount.

Example policy is sum insured is $25,000.

Policy B sum insured is 50.

Total value at risk is 100,000.

The claim amount is $6,000.

Applying the formula.

Amount paid by each insurer equals.

Policy sum insured divided by total value at risk times loss amount policy A share $25,000 divided by

100 times 6000 equals $1,500.

Policy B share $50,000 divided by 100 times 6000 equals $3,000.

If we look closely to both formulas, the second one is more sensitive and in line with the principle

of indemnity, because if we applied the first formula on the second example, the insured would have

gotten more than it should be.

Take the chance here and apply the previous formula on the second example to verify the total payout

by both insurers.

Take a note that in the second example, the value at risk is higher than the total sum insured of policy

A and B, and that would trigger average due to inadequate sum insured, which is something we call

under insurance average close.

Sounds confusing for now, but don't worry, we will explain the average concept in detail when we discuss

the principle of indemnity in the next session in this module.

Now, to make the contribution concept clearer, let's look at some practical examples.

Car insurance.

Suppose a taxi owner insures their vehicle with two different companies, both covering accidental damage.

If the taxi is involved in an accident and requires $20,000 in repair costs, both insurers will contribute

based on their proportionate share of coverage.

Fire insurance for a business.

A business owner insures their warehouse against fire with two different insurers.

If a fire destroys a stock worth of $40,000 and both insurers cover the same risk, each will contribute

to the loss based on the amounts insured in each of their policy.

Health insurance.

If a person has two health insurance policies, one from their employer and another private policy,

both policies may share the cost of hospital bills.

If contribution applies.

However, in some cases, health insurance policies may have clauses that prevent contribution, meaning

only one insurer will pay.

The principal of contribution is legally recognized in insurance contracts.

Insurance companies include clauses in their policies to specify how contribution will be applied.

If a claim is made under multiple policies, if a policyholder attempts to claim the full amount from

more than one insurer, the insurers have the right to adjust the payments accordingly.

In some cases, disputes may arise when insurers disagree on how much each should contribute.

These disputes are usually resolved based on the terms and conditions of the insurance policies and

established legal principles.Hello everyone and welcome to this section.

Today we will look how we handle contribution cases, and we will mainly use the formulas we've learned

in the previous section.

And we will read the wording in the policy for contribution and average these two terms we've explained

in the previous section, but let us recap on them.

So contribution it's a principle in in insurance.

And it's a major principle.

And it deals with a situation where there is a subject matter that is insured by two or more policy

policy A, B, C and or D, it doesn't matter how many policies, but it's actually covered by two or

more policies.

The same subject matter.

It should be the same subject matter.

So if I'm insuring a TV, let's say it should be the same TV covered in policy A and policy B and policy

C if it's a villa, let's say, or residential unit, it should be covered in two or more policies.

So it's the same subject matter.

This is very important.

So this is contribution.

It deals with the situation where there is multiple policies covering the same subject matter.

And the purpose of this principle is to be fair.

If if you are covered in policy A and policy B in policy C for the same subject matter.

In case of a claim happen, A should be only its share based on the sum insured, which is the amount

covered by the insurance policy.

Be the same thing should be its own share.

C should be its own share.

And it's not supposed that one policy cover the claim.

It should be all the policies contributing proportionally to the claim amount covered by each insurance

policy based on the sum insured, and the sum insured is the amount covered under each policy.

So let us also recap on the contribution formula.

We've said that policy share equal to the policy sum insured divided by total sum insured from all policies

covering the same risk okay.

This all times claim amount.

So if I'm going to calculate let's say policy A share.

So I will put the policy sum insured in a divided by total sum insured number of policies.

Policy a sum insured policy B sum insured policy C whatever.

It doesn't matter how many policies total sum insured will give us a value, we will put that value

under the total sum insured from all policies, and the sum insured from each policy will be the policy

sum insured that we are calculating the share.

So a here is a here.

But here is the total from all policies.

Now this division will give us a number as a percentage 0.560.76, which is multiplied by the claim

amount and will give us a share.

It doesn't matter if you consider this as a percentage, but it will be some sort of percentage here.

Now let's head to contribution close.

I need you to see how we write this in in insurance language or how we word this close.

Now this is the wording of contribution which you will see in insurance policy.

And you see how here it's clearly mentioned contribution and awarding is a way or a language used in

in the insurance policy.

It's fairly technical and it's sometimes difficult to understand.

This section of the course is not about the wording, but I want you to see how we write the language

related to contribution principle in the policy.

Now this section here is actually taken from an actual insurance policy for a property or risk insurance

cover.

Now let's read.

What does it say if at the time of any loss, destruction or damage happening to any property insured,

there be any other subsetting, insurance or insurances, whether effected by the insured or by any

other person or persons covering the same property.

The insurers shall not be liable to pay or contribute more than their ratable proportion of such loss,

destruction or damage.

I know it's really confusing, but let's break it down.

What is it actually saying?

It is saying that at the time of any loss, if there is any insurance or insurances means multiple policies

covering the same property.

This is the most important.

the insurers see shall not be liable to pay or contribute.

Okay.

Which is contribution more than their rateable proportion.

And if we go back to what we've been learning, this is the rateable proportion which will be 0.5657.

75.

85.

It doesn't matter.

Now, let us take an example to calculate the contribution using the formula we've just learned.

So policy share equals policy sum insured divided by total sum insured covered by all policies.

Times this amount.

Now let us keep this formula here and let us see these two policies.

So what is it saying here.

It's saying that we have a sum insured of 105 million for 145 single storey residential villas.

Now, I will assume in this example that all villas values are exactly the same values.

So if 105 million divided by 145, this will give me around 70 25,000.

Let's go back to our example.

And on policy B, there is 25 villas covered for 45,500,000.

Again, let's assume that the villa price is or value is equal to each other.

Okay.

Just for the purpose of this example, it doesn't mean that it always has to be.

So what is it saying?

It's saying that 45.5 million divided by 52 and it equals approximately to 933,000.

So this is what happened here.

I have 144 villas, which is a very long list of villas covered for the same owner, and another policy

covering 52 villas for the same owner.

What happened is in these two policies, we put a villa, one of these villas here and one is also here.

That means there is one villa only is duplicated.

So 145 plus 52 equals 197.

The actual number of villas should be 196.

That means there is one is duplicated means I put one villa in both policies.

This is some situation where where contribution happened, a big list of villas, big list of assets

and I duplicated the cover for the same villa in two different policy.

What happens is in policy A, which is covering 145, is covered for 725 K, which we calculated here.

And in policy B the same villa is covered for 933 K.

So the same villa is covered in two different policy for two different sum insured.

A claim happened and 435,000 dirhams because of fire or water damage it doesn't matter, but absolutely

it should be covered under the policy.

Otherwise we would reject the claim and there is no point of calculating anything.

So a claim happened for 135,000 dirhams by the insured.

Now we need to know what is the share of each insurance policy.

Applying this formula and calculating this, we will find out what is the share of each policy.

So let us use an Excel sheet to handle this example.

So we agreed in policy A covering the same villa for 725,000, and policy B covering for 933,000.

There is no policy C and there is no policy D the total sum insured from both are 1.658 million.

And we agreed that the claim amount is 135,000.

So policy a share is policy a sum insured as per the contribution formula divided by total sum insured

from all policies multiplied the claim amount 135.

It gives us 59,031.

Policy B share in the same way is policy B sum insured divided by total sum insured multiplied by the

same amount gives us the share of policy A and policy B.

The total claim paid by policy A and B should be exactly the same claim amount.

But if you notice here I titled this page without average average triggers when the subject matter is

covered for inadequate sum insured, and it protects insurer from paying more than it's supposed to

be.

Now average.

Actually there should be a subject matter always is covered for a certain sum.

Insured average says if the sum insured you are covering in the policy should be 75 to 85% of the actual

value.

If you covered, let's say, the villa for 700,000 and the actual value is 1 million.

In this case you are 30% short.

But if this amount is within 75 to 85% of the actual value, you are okay to go.

This is how the condition works in real life.

If it's not within this, let's say the sum insured is 1.5 million.

So in this case you are almost 45%, which is less than 75 or 85.

Depends on the condition you will get a reduction in the claim amount.

This is how average works in general.

So you have to be covering your subject matter with an adequate sum insured, which is close or the

same as the actual value.

You can't insure for less if you insured for less amount to save on the premium.

Average will trigger and average will also in case of a claim, will reduce the claim amount by the

same percentage you reduced the sum insured for.

The formula of average.

As we've learned, it says policy share equals policy sum insured divided by total value at risk times

loss amount.

And the previous formula we've said total sum insured from all policies.

So if they are all inadequate or if they are all more than it's supposed to be, the calculation of

the claim, it will not be exactly accurate.

But this formula here is more sensitive and the actual one is used.

The first formula is actually if everything is okay, it can be accepted, but it's actually just to

show you how we calculate contribution, but average claim to give more sensitivity to a claim and to

calculate accurately how much the share of each policy.

Let's go back to our Excel sheet for the same example of 545 villas and 52 villas.

So now let us apply the formula of average C as you see here, the title with average policy, a 725,009

33,000 is policy B.

The claim amount we've agreed is 135,000.

Now, in this formula, we are not using the total sum insured from all policies.

We are actually checking the total value at risk.

Now, the experts found out that the value at risk at the time of loss is 2 million.

And based on that, we calculated policy.

A share equals the policy a sum insured divided by the value at risk times or multiplied by the claim

amount.

And the share is 48,937.

Now policy B share is policy.

Be sum insured divided by value at risk at the time of loss times the claim amount, which gives 62

977.

The total claim paid is 111,915, which is less than the claim amount.

This should be paid by the insurer.

Why?

Because this formula is more sensitive for inadequate sum insured as we've established earlier.

If you are covering a subject matter in a sum insured that is inadequate.

This actually consequently will save in the premium in your contribution to the insurer.

In the same way, the insurer should also apply the average formula to reduce in the same proportion.

You can't expect to pay less and get more just because you played the inadequate sum insured method,

insured should cover their subject matter with an adequate sum insured.

So this one.

This amount will not be covered by the insurer.

This amount 111 will be paid by the insurer.

But the difference or this excess amount which came from 135 minus how much the both insurers will pay.

This should be paid by the insured because it was inadequate sum insured.

I also added here the average percentage.

We use this excel sheet if the average clause is triggered or not.

I will show you how.

It's the total sum insured from all policies divided by total value at risk, which gives an 83%.

Now the clause says if the value if is within 85% and above, That's okay.

We will not reduce.

We will use the total sum insured.

What I'm trying to say here is the minimum sum insured is 2 million times 85% is 1.7.

But we are short.

So to meet the condition of 85%, at least, both policies should cover 1.7 million.

But in our case, it covered 1.658 thousand.

That's why we reduced.

But if this percentage or let's say this is 1.7 million here.

See, it's an 85%.

So I'm not gonna do the reduction.

So if both policies are covering 1.7 million, there is no need to trigger the average means there will

be no reduction, means both insurers will cover the claim amount totally without any reduction.

So what this condition says that sometimes sometimes we make mistakes are as Has insured.

So that's why insurance is a product of trust and good faith.

We include this condition in policy.

So if you made a mistake and this mistake within a range of 10 to 15%, you are okay to go.

We will not do anything as insurers to reduce the claim amount.

So this is the wording of average clause.

Let's read it together.

If the property insured shall, at the time of any loss, destruction or damage, be collectively of

a greater value than the sum insured thereon, then the insured shall be considered as being his own

insurer for the difference, and shall bear a charitable proportion of the loss.

Accordingly, every item, if more than one of the policy, shall be separately subject to this condition.

This sounds confusing, but let us break it down.

What is it actually saying at the time of loss?

If we found out that the value at risk is higher than the sum insured in the policy, the excess amount

will be covered by the insured.

Then the insured shall be considered as being his own insurer.

Means that excess, which we've seen in the previous Excel sheet.

We've highlighted that difference is paid by the insured and this amount is rateable proportion, which

is based on the percentage of the inadequate sum insured.

We've explained that in the previous example.

Just trying to show you here how we combine in insurance language what we've just learned in one clause

as average.

See here there is something really important.

What is it saying?

Every item, if more than one of the policy shall be separately subject to this conditions means if

you have a list of subject matters that is covered under one policy and those subject matters, there

is 1 or 2 or multiple that are covered by a sum insured which is inadequate.

Average will trigger and we have to apply the formula of average.

Now there is one thing I need to highlight here.

Contribution and average are two separate things.

Contribution is a principal.

Average is a condition.

So it doesn't need to have a contribution case to trigger average.

But if you have a contribution case you have to consider average to calculate accurate claims as we've

established.

Thank you all.

That's it for this session.

See you in the next section.In this session, I will explain what indemnity means, why it is an essential principle in insurance,

and how it applies to various types of insurance policies.

At the end of this lesson, you should have a clear understanding of how the principle of indemnity

protects both policyholders and insurers from loss and unfair gains.

The principle of indemnity is a fundamental concept in insurance.

It aims to restore the insured to the financial position they were in before a loss happened.

In other words, it means that insurance is meant to compensate for actual losses, not to provide a

profit.

The term indemnity means compensation for a loss or damage.

The idea is that insurance should make the insured whole again, as if the loss had never happened,

but not better off than before.

Meaning no betterment or enhancement is allowed from the compensation.

I would like to highlight that this principle applies primarily to general insurance and not to life

insurance.

Let us take an example to understand this principle.

If your insured car is damaged in an accident, the insurer will pay to repair or replace the car to

its pre-accident condition addition or to the condition before the loss happened.

However, insurer will not pay more than the car's actual value or the actual value of repair.

Otherwise, if insurer paid more, this would give you a financial gain, and this is against the principle

of indemnity.

Let me clarify this principle with a more detailed example.

Jack owns a house with a simple decoration and basic furniture.

Each item of this decorations and furniture with a specific cost or value.

Jack bought his property or risk insurance policy from insurer to cover his house if Jack House experiences

a loss due to a fire or any other covered event under the policy.

The insurer's obligation is to pay the amount of money required to rebuild or repair the house, and

replace the contents to return them to the same state or condition as before the loss happened.

Therefore, in line with the principle of indemnity, there should be no improvement or enhancement

beyond the original state from the compensation.

This means Jack can't claim for a new expensive decoration or sophisticated furniture.

The insurer's responsibility is to bring Jack back to the pre-loss condition without any upgrades or

improvements.

Jack will only receive what he had before the loss and nothing more.

But this might raise a very important question.

What if the exact items that were damaged or lost are no longer available in the market?

What do you think?

Take a moment to answer this question.

All right.

In this case, if the item that were damaged or lost is no longer available in the market, the insurer

will seek alternative items or the closest model to the ones Jack had before the loss and offer these

items as compensation.

Now, what is the purpose of the principle of indemnity?

The principle of indemnity serves several essential purposes.

Prevents overcompensation and ensures that the insured doesn't profit from a loss.

Maintaining the purpose of insurance as financial protection, rather than a profit making tool, minimizes

fraud by limiting the payouts to the actual loss amount.

And this principle discourages policyholders from intentionally causing losses to gain financially.

Also maintains fairness and ensures fairness in insurance by matching compensation to the extent of

the loss, protecting both the insurer and the policyholder.

Controls moral hazard.

When policyholders know they will not profit from a loss, they are more likely to act responsibly Simply

to avoid losses.

Now we need to learn how indemnity works.

It's essential to recognize that insurance policies typically assess compensation based on the actual

value of the insured item.

Insurers use the following methods to determine the appropriate compensation in different situations.

There are six methods, and I will explain all of them with an example for better clarity.

Actual cash value.

This method considers the replacement cost of the covered item minus depreciation.

Depreciation used to account for the age, wear, and tear of the item.

Example if a five years old television that originally cost $1,000 is destroyed, and its current value,

considering depreciation is $400.

The insurer will only pay the $400 repair method.

Repair is a method used when it is possible to restore the insured to their financial position before

a loss.

Instead of providing a cash payout, the insurer pays for or arranges the necessary repairs to damaged

property to restore it to the damaged condition.

Example.

If a car is damaged in an accident, the insurance company may choose to cover the cost of repairs instead

of giving the owner a cash payout.

What usually happens is insurer arrange for fixing the car to its pre-accident condition.

The insurer ensures that the insured is neither better nor worse off financially than before the accident.

Replacement cost.

This method covers the cost of replacing the item with a new one of similar kind and quality, without

considering depreciation.

Example if your insured laptop is stolen, the insurer may cover the cost to buy a new one.

Similar laptop without any deduction or depreciation.

Market value.

Market value is the price at which the item could be sold at the time of loss.

This method applies mainly to items like jewelry, collectibles, and art.

Example.

If a collectible painting insured for its market value is damaged, the insurer compensates based on

the painting's current market price.

Agreed value for unique or high value items, the insurer and the insured agree on a specific value

at the start of the policy.

If a loss happens, this agreed value is paid.

Example if a classic car valued at $50,000 under an agreed value policy is totaled, the insurer will

pay the full $50,000 agreed value.

Reinstatement.

Reinstatement is a method of applying the principle of indemnity and typically used in property insurance.

Instead of compensating the insured with cash for the depreciated value of a damaged asset, the insurer

restores or repairs the asset to its original condition or replaces it with a similar one.

Example.

If a house is damaged by fire, the insurer may pay to rebuild the house as it was before the incident.

This reinstatement ensures that the insured's financial position is restored without betterment or depreciation.

Aligning with the principle of indemnity.

All right.

After explaining how the principle of indemnity works, it is important to learn about indemnity limiting

factors.

These limiting factors affect how indemnity works.

One policy limits the maximum amount payable by the insurer is predetermined in the insurance policy.

If the actual loss exceeds this limit, the insurer will not cover the excess amount of the loss.

Second policy sublimits the maximum amount payable by the insurer is predetermined in the insurance

policy.

Sublimits.

What is a sub limit?

Insurance policies usually has sub limits in the condition section of the policy and this supplements

Apart from the total policy limits which restrict the claim payout to a certain limit.

To illustrate this, let us discuss the debris removal clause in a property insurance.

This clause limits the cost of debris removal after sustaining a loss in the property insured to a certain

amount, or a percentage from the total sum insured of the policy.

Third, under insurance, if the insured undervalues the asset to pay lower premiums, the compensation

is proportionately reduced under the principle of average.

In this case, the amount payable by an insurer is capped at the sum insured declared by the policyholder

under the policy at the time of buying insurance, and this sum insured figure is used to calculate

the premium charged.

If the declared sum insured is inadequate.

Such case would lead to a situation called.

Underinsurance and in this case average will apply.

If the sum insured is not adequate or within usually 75 or 85% of the actual value declared on the insurer

terms.

I know this might sound confusing.

Let me break it down.

What do I mean by average and underinsurance?

The average clause is a condition in insurance policies that applies when an insured asset is underinsured,

meaning the sum insured declared to cover a certain asset is less than the actual value of the asset.

This situation triggers average clause under insurance.

Usually happens by mistake or intentionally.

Either way, such situation will cause to lower the premium charged.

And since the premium is lower than it is supposed to be, insurer will compensate the claims less than

it's supposed to be.

That's why average insures that the insurer only pays a proportionate amount of the claim based on the

insured value, relative to the actual value of the asset.

Now let us learn how average works.

If an asset is insured for less than its actual value, the compensation is reduced in proportion to

the underinsurance.

The formula for calculating the claim amounts under the average clause is as per the following.

Example.

Actual value of property is $200,000.

Sum insured $100,000, which is only 50% of actual value.

Loss incurred is $50,000.

Using the average formula

$200,000 divided by $100,000 times $50,000, equal $25,000.

The insurer will only pay $25,000, and the insured must bear the remaining $25,000 as they were under

insured.

Remember, as we stated earlier, average will apply only if actual value or sum insured is not within

the 75% to 85% of the value at loss.

And in our example, it is only 50% of actual value, which means it is an underinsurance situation.

We have came across average in the previous session on contribution.

If you feel you need to go back to review how contribution and average works together, I would recommend

you to do so to retain as much as possible from the information provided.

All right.

This brings us to the purpose of the average clause prevents underinsurance and encourages policyholders

to insure assets for their full value, ensures fair compensation and aligns payout with the proportion

of the insurance coverage.

Protects insurers from overpayment and avoids situation where an insured party pays lower premium but

expect full compensation.

The principle of indemnity is not only a standard practice, but also a legal requirement.

In many jurisdictions, insurance contracts clearly state the terms and conditions under which compensation

is calculated.

When a dispute arises over the amount of compensation, courts often rely on the principle of indemnity

to make fair decisions.

The principle of indemnity is crucial for maintaining fairness and financial integrity in insurance.

It ensures that policyholders are compensated for actual losses while preventing financial gain from

insurance claims.

The idea is simple insurance should make you whole after a loss, but not better off than before.

Understanding this principle helps policyholders appreciate why claims are settled the way they are,

and helps prevent unrealistic expectations.

Insurers, on the other hand.

Use this principle to maintain the stability and sustainability of their insurance business.
In this session, I will discuss with you what loss minimization means, why it is important, and how

it applies to real life situations involving insurance.

At the end of this session, you will understand the responsibilities of both policyholders and insurers

in minimizing losses when an unfortunate event happens.

The principle of loss minimization states that the insured must take reasonable steps to minimize the

damage or loss to their insured property when an unexpected event happens.

Also, this principle emphasizes the The responsibility of the policyholder to act sensibly and carefully

to prevent further loss or damage after an incident.

But why would the insured or policyholder do that?

Some would say I have insurance.

It's a free ticket.

Just let the house burn down.

That's okay.

No, it is not okay because insurance is designed to protect against unforeseen events, and it is not

intended to encourage careless behavior when a loss happens.

The insured must act as if they were uninsured, and they should try to limit the extent of the loss

as much as possible.

Let us take an example to clarify this principle.

Jack house insured against fire, and fire breaks out in a part of his house.

Jack's first priority is to ensure his safety and evacuate the premises.

However, after securing his safety, Jack has a duty to report the incident to the authorities and

call the fire department or using a fire extinguisher to control the fire if possible.

These immediate actions are crucial in minimizing the loss.

Jack is expected to be proactive in taking steps that are within his control to mitigate the loss.

This means Jack is not supposed to wait for the entire house to burn down, but instead he should take

steps to stop the fire from spreading further.

Let's look at another example involving a stocked warehouse.

A heavy rain damages the warehouse's ceiling, causing water to flood in and potentially damage part

of the stock.

In this case, the insured should take immediate action, and in this case, the best course of action

would be to start to shift the stock to a safe and dry location.

See how simple this is?

Can you imagine how much saving from loss is done by doing such action?

Now, what is the purpose of the principle of loss minimization?

The principle of loss minimization serves several critical purposes.

Prevents increased loss, and it ensures that the damage doesn't grow unnecessarily due to negligent

or careless behavior.

Controls, insurance costs and minimizing losses.

Insurers can manage their claims expenses.

Helping maintain affordable premiums for all policyholders.

Encourages responsible behavior.

And promotes responsibility among policyholders.

Discouraging reckless or careless actions.

That would worsen a loss.

Protects the insurers interests.

Since insurers compensate for losses.

Minimizing damage.

Helps protect their financial interests while still providing coverage to the insured.

Without this principle, policyholders might act carelessly.

Knowing that insurers will cover all the damages, potentially leading to increased claims.

And higher premiums for everyone.

This is very important.

If insurance sustains increased cost of claims and keeps losing, adjustment to increase the premium

would be their first call.

It's essential to understand that insurance doesn't grant immunity to negligence.

Just because you are insured, it doesn't mean you can be negligent or careless.

You have a responsibility to act to minimize the loss.

Once an insurable event happens.

Now let us learn how usually this principle works.

When an unfortunate event happens, such as fire, accident, theft, or natural disaster, the insured

is expected to act wisely to minimize losses.

Such actions or measures to be followed by the insured may include taking immediate actions and acting

quickly to limit the extent of damage.

Notifying authorities and contacting the police in the case of theft or vandalism, or calling emergency

services during a fire or accident.

Following safety protocols and using fire extinguishers or first aid kit or safety measures to control

damage and prevent further harm.

Protecting property and moving valuable items to a safe location if possible, or securing property

to prevent additional damage.

Notifying the insurer and informing the insurance company promptly about the incident and following

their guidance on mitigating further loss.

Now, to better understand this principle, let's go through a few real life examples.

Car accident.

If Jack's car is involved in an accident and got damaged, Jack should move it off the road if safe.

And I would like to highlight on if safe here.

So Jack should move it off the road to prevent further collusion or damage.

Why would he do that?

Because if he simply leave it on the road and additional damage happened, the insurer may question

his effort to minimize the loss.

Theft incident.

If Jack's house is broken into and valuables are stolen, he should immediately inform the police and

secure any broken doors or windows to prevent further theft.

If he leaves the property unprotected, resulting in additional losses.

The insurer might reduce the compensation.

Water damage incident.

If a water pipe bursts in Jack's home.

He should turn off the main water supply immediately to reduce flooding.

Because allowing the water to continue flowing, causing more extensive damage.

May result in the insurer questioning Jack's efforts to minimize the loss.

Fire damage incident.

If a small fire breaks out in Jack's kitchen.

Jack should attempt to put it out safely with a fire extinguisher or call the fire department.

Ignoring the fire and allowing it to spread would demonstrate negligence, and the insurer could reduce

the payout.

It is essential to understand that the principle of loss minimization doesn't mean the insured has to

bear the loss personally.

The insured is only expected to take reasonable and safe actions to minimize the loss.

The insurer will still pay for the actual damages, as long as the policyholder has taken reasonable

steps to reduce the loss.

A valid question may arises here is the insured supposed to risk his safety to minimize the loss?

The short answer is no.

Okay, someone would say, then how to answer this question?

Let us use this example.

If Jack tried to put out the fire that started in his house, but he couldn't control it because doing

so might harm Jack and risk his safety, and the house suffers major damage.

The insurer will still compensate Jack for the loss.

What matters is that Jack made a genuine effort and tried to limit the damage, but he couldn't.

To avoid harming himself.

That's why earlier I have emphasized on loss minimization.

Action must be done if possible or safe.

All right.

But what actually happens if the insured fails to minimize losses?

Well, if a policyholder neglects their responsibility to minimize loss, the insurance company may

reduce the claim amount or in some cases, deny the claim altogether.

This decision depends on whether the policyholders inaction or negligence worsen the damage.

For instance, if a shop owner experiences a minor fire but ignores it and the fire.

Spreads, causing severe damage, the insurer might assess whether the loss.

Could have been minimized if the owner failed to take reasonable measures.

The claim amount may be reduced while the principle generally applies.

There are exceptions where it may not be enforced strictly.

Risk to life or safety.

If minimizing loss puts the insured's life or health in danger.

They are not expected to take such measures.

Example if a fire breaks out, the priority is to ensure personal safety, not to save.

Property.

Lack of awareness if the insured is unaware of the loss happening, they can't be expected to minimize

it.

Example if a water pipe bursts while the home owner is on vacation, they can't be held responsible

for not turning off the water.

Uncontrollable situations.

If the loss can't be controlled or minimized due to the nature of the incident is uncontrollable.

Example.

Damage from a natural disaster, like a major earthquake may be beyond the policyholder's control.

Many insurance contracts clearly mention the duty of the policyholder to take reasonable steps to minimize

losses.

Insurers may include this clause to insure policyholders act responsibly in the event of a loss.

If a dispute arises over the efforts made to minimize the loss, courts often consider whether the insured

acted as a wise person would do under similar circumstances.

The principle of loss minimization emphasizes the responsibility of policyholders to act sensibly and

carefully, to reduce the extent of the damage when an unexpected loss happens.

This principle maintains fairness in insurance by preventing unnecessary losses, reducing fraudulent

claims, and keeping insurance premiums reasonable.

By understanding this principle, policyholders can better protect themselves and their property while

ensuring that their insurance claims are handled smoothly and fairly.

In this session, I will explain what subrogation means, why it is significant, and how it functions

in various insurance scenarios.

At the end of this lesson, you will understand how subrogation helps maintain fairness, prevents undeserved

enhancements, and protects the interests of both insurers and policyholders.

What do I mean by subrogation?

The principle of subrogation is a legal concept in insurance, which allows the insurer to take over

the rights of the insured to recover compensation from a third party responsible for the loss.

Once the insurer has paid the claim.

Let me put it in a different way.

Subrogation means that if someone else is responsible for the loss that the insurer has compensated

for, the insurer has the right to step into the shoes of the insured and seek recovery from the party

at fault.

A good example would be if Jack's car is damaged in an accident caused by another driver, Jack.

Insurer may pay for the repairs under his insurance policy.

However, since the other driver is responsible for the accident Jack.

Insurer has the right to recover the amount paid from the driver's insurer.

This process is called subrogation.

All right.

Now let us learn.

What is the purpose of the principle of subrogation?

The principle of subrogation plays a vital role in the insurance industry for several reasons.

It prevents double compensation and ensure that the insurer doesn't receive compensation twice, once

from their own insurer and again from the responsible third party.

Recovers losses for the insurer by pursuing the at fault party, the insurer can recover the amount

paid out, reducing their financial loss.

Distributes liability fairly and ensures that the party responsible for causing the loss ultimately

bears the financial burden.

Controls premium costs by recovering funds from responsible parties.

Insurers can manage their costs, helping keep premiums more affordable for all policyholders without

subrogation.

Insurance companies would suffer greater financial losses, leading to higher premiums and potentially

making insurance less accessible.

Now, how does the principle of subrogation work?

The process of subrogation typically follows these steps.

First claim payment.

The insurer compensates the policyholder for the loss or damage covered by the insurance policy.

Then write transfer after paying the claim.

The insurer acquires the right from the insurer to recover the loss from the third party responsible.

Then recovery from third party.

The insurer chases the at fault party to recover the amount paid.

This may involve negotiation or legal actions.

However, this process usually is done between insurance companies as part of the insurance business

operation.

Finally, distribution of recovered amount.

If the insurer recovers more than the claim amount paid, the excess may be given to the insured after

deducting legal expenses.

Let us take a few examples to see how subrogation applies in real life scenarios.

Car accident.

Suppose Jack have a comprehensive car insurance and another driver crashes into his car due to their

negligence.

Jack's insurer pays for the car's repair, then chase the negligent driver or their insurer to recover

the claim payment.

Property damage.

If Jack's neighbour accidentally causes a fire that damages Jack's house.

Jack's home insurance company may compensate him for the loss.

After settling the claim, Jack insurer can seek reimbursement from Jack's neighbor or their insurance

company.

Health insurance if Jack is injured due to someone else's negligence.

Jack's health insurance may cover the medical expenses later.

Jack Health insurer can claim reimbursement from the responsible party or their insurer.

Anyway, in real life, it is not always straightforward.

Subrogation can face certain challenges or limitations, like third party insolvency.

If the responsible party cannot pay, the insurer may not be able to recover the claim amount paid.

Legal complexities.

Pursuing legal actions for subrogation can be time consuming, costly and uncertain.

Disputes over fault.

If there is a disagreement about who is responsible for the loss.

Subrogation can become complicated.

Waivers of subrogation.

If a waiver of subrogation exists, the insurer may lose the right to recover their losses.

In certain situations, insurer may choose to waive their subrogation rights.

This is typically accomplished through subrogation waiver clauses.

Such clauses frequently found in commercial insurance policies.

These clauses are often structured to prohibit the insurer from chasing any subrogation claims against

a parent or subsidiary company of the policyholder.

Full indemnity required.

The insurer can only chase subrogation if they have fully compensated the insured for the loss.

If partial payment is made, subrogation may not be applied.

Insureds.

Role.

The insured is obligated to assist the insurer in pursuing subrogation, such as providing necessary

information and documents.

Subrogation principle is recognized and enforced under insurance laws in many jurisdictions.

Most insurance policies include a subrogation clause outlining the rights and responsibilities of both

the insurer and the insured.

If a policyholder compromises the insurer's right to subrogate by signing a release or settlement without

the insurer's consent, they may risk losing the claim.

This is very important point in subrogation, which I have seen it in multiple occasions.

The insured usually gets into an agreement with the at fault party and receive from them agreed compensation.

In this case, such agreements is usually in writing.

Such actions cause the insurer to deny any claim will be filed by the insured, because the insured

already received a compensation from the at fault party without informing his insurer.

This agreed compensation will cause the insurer to lose the right of subrogation, and the claim will

be denied even if the claim gets filed.

When the insurer starts the process to subrogate from the at fault party, insurer will lose the claim

and eventually the insured will lose the right to claim.

In my opinion, this is not okay because the insured usually ends up receiving less than what they are

supposed to get out of the claim from the at fault party.

The principle of subrogation is a crucial part of insurance that ensures fairness, prevents double

compensation, and holds the responsible parties accountable for their actions.

It protects insurers from excessive financial loss, helping them keep premiums reasonable for all policyholders.

Understanding this principle helps policyholders know their rights and responsibilities when making

claims and cooperating with their insurers.

It also helps insurers maintain stability and continue provide coverage to their clients.In this session, I will explain what this principle means, why it is crucial in the world of insurance,

and how it applies to both policyholders and insurers.

At the end of this session, you will understand the responsibilities involved and the consequences

of not adhering to this principle.

What does utmost good faith means?

The principle of utmost good faith is a fundamental concept in insurance that requires both the insurer

and the insured to act honestly and disclose all material facts before entering into an insurance contract.

This principle is based on trust and transparency.

It means that both parties should provide complete and accurate information, ensuring that the insurance

agreement is fair and based on a clear understanding of the risks involved.

A good example would be if a person applying for health insurance and has a pre-existing medical condition,

they must disclose it honestly.

If they hide this information and later make a claim related to that condition, the insurer has the

right to deny the claim or cancel the policy.

In a similar way, when the insured apply for car insurance, the insurance company asks the insured

specific questions about their driving history and the vehicle It's the insured duty to answer these

questions truthfully.

On the other side, the insurance company is obligated to clearly and honestly explain their coverage

terms and conditions.

So from that, we can formulate a definition for the utmost good faith.

Utmost good faith is a proactive obligation to willingly disclose, with accuracy and completeness,

all material facts related to the proposed risk, regardless of whether they have been explicitly requested

or not.

A good question may arises here.

What is the purpose of the principle of utmost good faith from the definition we've just learned?

Can you think of the purpose of this principle?

Take a moment to think about an answer.

All right.

The principle of utmost good faith is essential for several reasons.

Risk assessment.

Insurers rely on accurate information to assess the level of risk and determine appropriate premiums.

Misrepresentation or non-disclosure can lead to incorrect risk evaluation.

Fairness.

This principle maintains fairness by ensuring that both the insurer and the insured are transparent,

preventing dishonest practices.

Trust building.

Insurance contracts are built on trust.

Honest disclosure encourages trust and maintains positive relationships between insurers and policyholders

claim settlement.

Accurate information helps insurers process claims fairly and efficiently.

Misleading information can result in disputes and denial of claims.

Without this principle, the entire foundation of insurance contracts would fail, leading to increased

fraud and fair claims and potential losses for insurers.

So how this principle works well when applying for insurance, the policyholder must disclose all material

facts that could influence the insurers decision to accept the risk or determine the premium.

What is a material fact?

Material facts are any details that can affect the risk profile or the likelihood of a loss.

In a similar way, insurers must provide clear, accurate information about the coverage, terms, conditions

and exclusions of the policy to help policyholders make informed decisions.

Material facts or circumstances.

We will come across these terms multiple times in this session, but what does it mean in this context?

Circumstance or fact is considered material if it would impact the decision making process of the insurer

in evaluating whether to accept the risk proposed or not, and if accepted, the risk, under what terms

would this risk be covered?

In the context of general insurance.

There are two types of material facts.

Physical hazards.

Let us take, for example, physical hazards in the following type of insurance.

Motor insurance.

Physical hazards in motor insurance would be model and type of the vehicle.

Age of the driver.

Driver's license status.

History of previous accidents.

Location where the vehicle is primarily kept.

Intended use of the vehicle.

Moral hazards.

For example, disclosure of any previous refusal for insurance or declines by other insurers.

Previous claims.

History, particularly if there are indication or suspected fraud or exaggerations.

Any criminal convictions.

Let us now learn about the duty of disclosure in the principle of utmost good faith.

Duty of disclosure.

It is a duty that requires all parties involved in an insurance contract to act honestly and disclose

all material facts truthfully.

And there are three types of such.

Duty.

Duty of disclosure on businesses seeking insurance coverage.

Duty of disclosure on individuals seeking insurance cover.

Duty of disclosure on the insurance company.

Duty of disclosure on businesses seeking insurance cover.

Businesses have to disclose to insurers every material circumstance which they know or ought to know

about the risk proposed.

In other words, businesses have to provide the insurer with sufficient information to show the insurer

that it needs to make further inquiries into those material circumstances.

This disclosure made by businesses should be clear and accessible to the insurer.

Also, this disclosure should be correct and done in good faith.

Let us take an example.

A construction company is applying for liability insurance policy.

The company is aware that one of its recent projects had structural safety concerns, and there have

been two incidents of minor collapses at the site, and no serious injuries happened since.

This information is a material circumstance, meaning it significantly affects the risk for the insurer.

The company must disclose this information to the insurance provider if they fail to mention these incidents,

and the insurer later finds out.

The policy could be voided or claims could be denied.

However, if the company fully discloses these issues and provides details, the insurer can assess

the risk properly, possibly adjust the premium or request additional safety measures before providing

coverage.

Duty of disclosure on individuals seeking insurance cover.

Such duty on individuals is different from what businesses are required to disclose.

Individuals are only required to exercise reasonable care to avoid misrepresentation.

However, the duty of disclosure, as we've learned, entails declaring everything that could potentially

impact the insurer assessment in setting the terms and determining whether to accept the risk presented.

But in the individuals case, usually individuals have little idea on what to disclose or what not to

disclose to the insurer.

That's why in this situation, insurers are required to ask specific questions about what they actually

want to know from those individuals.

Let us take an example.

Jack is applying for health insurance.

Unlike businesses, he is not required to disclose every possible health related detail unless asked.

Instead, he must exercise reasonable care to avoid misrepresentation.

So when Jack filling out the health insurance application.

The insurer provides a medical questionnaire asking about his pre-existing conditions.

Past surgeries and whether he smokes.

Jack forgets to mention that he had minor asthma.

As a child, because he hasn't had symptoms in years.

Since the insurer did not ask specifically about.

Childhood conditions or minor past illnesses, Jack is not at fault for hiding this detail.

However, if he intentionally lie about being.

A smoker to get lower premiums, that would be a misrepresentation and could result in his policy being

cancelled.

Or claims being denied.

Duty of disclosure on the insurance company.

To fulfill this duty, the insurer must operate with the highest level of good faith, which includes

informing the policyholder about any entitlement to a premium discount based on their insurance history.

Only taking risks for which the insurer is authorised to accept.

And ensuring that all statements made by the insurer are truthful.

Because misleading a customer regarding policy coverage constitutes a breach of utmost good faith.

Misrepresentation and concealment.

In the context of utmost good faith, there are two critical violations to understand.

Misrepresentation.

This happens when a person provides It's false information or incorrect statements, whether intentionally

or unintentionally.

Example stating that you don't smoke when applying for health insurance despite being a smoker.

Concealment this is the deliberate hiding or withholding of material facts.

Unlike misrepresentation, concealment is intentional and done with the intent to deceive.

Example.

Not disclosing a diagnosed heart condition when applying for health insurance.

If misrepresentation or concealment is discovered, insurers have the right to cancel the policy.

Deny claims.

Increase the premium.

Take legal action if fraud is evident.

Consequences of non-disclosure and misrepresentation.

If the policyholder breaches the duty of disclosure, the insurer has the right to void the contract

entirely.

This means that any claims under the policy would not be payable.

The rule of the non-disclosure occurs and provides grounds for avoidance by the insurer.

When a fact meets the following criteria, it is known to the policyholder.

It is unknown to the insurer.

It would have influenced the insurer decision on the risk proposed.

Insurer reacts to duty of disclosure breaches differently based on the insured type and the type of

the breach.

If the insured is a business.

In the case of innocent breach.

If a business can prove it was an honest mistake, the insurer may revise the policy terms, but not

necessarily cancel coverage in the case of negligent breach.

Insurer may proportionally adjust claims, increase premiums or impose new terms.

In the case of deliberate and reckless breach, the insurer can void the policy entirely.

Refuse all claims and potentially take legal action for fraud.

If the insured is individual.

In the case of innocent misrepresentation, the insurer may correct the terms or continue.

Coverage.

In the case of negligent misrepresentation, the insurer can adjust the policy.

Charge additional premiums or reduce a claim proportionally.

In the case of deliberate and reckless misrepresentation, the insurer may void the policy entirely.

And refuse all claims.

The principle of utmost good faith is a cornerstone of the insurance industry, ensuring honesty, transparency

and fairness between insurers and policyholders by fully disclosing material facts and understanding

the terms of their policies.

Policyholders can avoid claim denials, policy cancellations and legal consequences.

Insurers, on their part, must communicate openly and clearly, making sure that policyholders are

well informed about their coverage.

Trust and transparency on both sides help build strong, lasting relationships and reliable insurance

system.




