Welcome to this Introduction to Service Management with Idle four.

In this course you're going to get an excellent introduction to the world of I.T.

Service management and the ideal for framework.

Please note this course is not designed to be a complete study solution with everything you need to

know to take and pass the four Foundation certification exam.

Instead, this course is designed to get you started with idle four and to introduce you to the main

concepts.

This course allows you to see if Idle four is right for you and your organization.

Now, once you've decided that idle four is right for you, your next step will be to earn your Idle

four Foundation certification.

As of November 1st, 2019, all training courses for the Idle four Foundation certification must be

sold with the certification voucher included.

Because this site doesn't support the sale of those vouchers, you can only buy our full idle four training

course at DIAN training, where you're going to learn everything you need to know to take and pass the

idle four Foundation exam on your first attempt.

In addition to that, you're going to be exposed to the entire idle four framework there so you can

learn how to best use it within your organization.

Now, with that being said, that doesn't mean that this course isn't going to be valuable to you over

the next hour or so.

I'm going to provide you with the basics and the foundations of service management and a great introduction

to Idle so that you can decide if you want to dive into this full certification process.

So whether you're taking this course to learn about the idle floor framework or you're taking this course

to prepare for the certification exam so you can get a new job or advancing your current organization.

This course has been designed specifically to teach you all about service management and introduce you

to the major concepts of idle four, such as the four dimensions of service management, the service

value system, the guiding principles, the service value chain, continual improvement, and the 34

practices of idle.

At the end of our time together, I'll even give you an introduction to the certification exam so that

you can see what it feels like to take the idle four foundation certification and see if that's going

to be right for you.

Now, before we dive into the course materials, let me provide you with a quick introduction to idle

itself.

If your boss enrolled you in this course, you may not even know what idle is or what it's used for.

Idle is a framework for service management, but I guess that really begs the question, what is service

management?

Well, service management is a set of specialized organizational capabilities for enabling value to

customers in the form of services.

Now we're going to talk a lot about service management during our time together.

In fact, the entirety of Section two is dedicated to the concepts of service management.

Now, Idle was designed to provide organizations with a comprehensive framework for I.T.

Service management.

In fact, IDLE is the world's most popular and most widely used i.t service management framework.

And it's one of the reasons why the idle foundation certification is in really high demand, because

most large companies have built their i.t.

Service management systems and processes around the idle framework.

So now that I've hopefully gotten you all excited about idle, I need to take a quick detour and introduce

myself and share four important tips to help you learn better during our time together.

First, my name is Jason Dion and I am the lead instructor here at Dion Training Solutions.

I've been working in the I.T and cybersecurity field for over two decades for organizations both large

and small.

In all of these organizations, though, there is one common thread and that was idle.

When I talk about small organizations, I'm talking about companies with less than about 20 people,

companies like my own.

Now, when I mentioned large organizations, one of my last positions was with an organization that

spanned six continents, dozens of countries and millions of users.

And guess what?

Both these small companies and these large companies all ran on idle.

Now, I'm not just an instructor of idle, but I'm also a practitioner of the idle framework with decades

of experience.

Rest assured, you are in great hands with me.

In fact, I'm an authorized instructor for Idle and my company is an ATO, an accredited training organization

for people served on behalf of zealous the creators of the idle framework and the certification exams.

All of our courses are reviewed by them prior to us releasing them to you to ensure you're getting the

quality training that you deserve.

Now for my four tips to success in this course.

First, for every video in this course, you have the ability to turn on closed captioning.

Each video is captioned by a real human to ensure accuracy.

And this allows you to read along with the course if you need to.

Many of my students who speak English as their second language really love having those captions playing

along with the videos because it aids in their learning.

If you want to enable closed captions, simply click on the CC button in the bottom of your video player.

My second tip is about playback speed.

Some of my students say that I talk too fast, while others say I speak too slowly.

Either way, you get to control the speed of instruction by clicking on the one x button in the bottom

of your video player.

If you want me to go faster, simply select 1.25 x or 1.5 x if you want me to go slower.

Simply click on 0.75 x or 0.5 X faster or slower.

The choice is yours.

Now my third tip and.

One of the most important tips is about our student support group.

We have a student support group with several thousand other students who are learning Eidl and other

I.T. and project management certifications through all of our various courses.

If you want to join the fun there, it is completely free to do.

And you can find us at Facebook.com groups slash D on training once their request to join this private

group.

And we'll let you in.

In this group, we answer questions.

We put out additional free content and we help support each other through our IT careers.

Also, if you ask your questions there, you're likely to get an answer within just a few minutes,

most of the time, because we have thousands of other students, both past and present, who join in

our conversations there.

So if you're on Facebook, I really recommend joining that group today.

Now, the fourth and final tip is that this course comes with a downloadable study guide as a PDF in

the next lesson.

To access it, simply download it from the resources in the next lesson and then you can print it out

and refer to it during your offline studies.

Now, with all of the introductions behind us, let's get started learning all about it.

Service management with idle for.











Back when you attended school as a child,

you may have learned about the industrial revolution.

The first industrial revolution occurred in the

18th and 19th centuries, all across Europe and America.

During this period, humanity moved from

an agrarian-based rural society of farmers

into an urbanized, industrial area,

that later developed into

some of our country's largest cities.

This movement was brought about by the development

of mechanization in the form of iron and textile industries,

as well as the power of the steam engine

for our transportation needs.

The industrial revolution was only the first one though,

by the end of the 19th century,

and continuing until World War I,

or the Great War, as it's known in Europe,

humanity moved into the second industrial revolution.

During this time, our industries expanded

to include steel, oil, electricity,

and electrically-powered equipment to aid

in the mass production of goods.

During this time period, cars were developed

with their internal combustion engines,

that made transportation even more convenient and efficient.

At the same time, the light bulb

began to replace candlelight,

allowing us to work longer into the night.

And of course, communication across great distances

became possible through the use of our telephones.

Life was better than it had ever been before,

but humanity wasn't done exploring and inventing yet.

Technology continued to expand in its use,

but there weren't any real major breakthroughs

until the end of the 20th century.

It was around 1980 and technology

had jumped to yet another level.

This was way beyond what existed in the

second industrial revolution.

It was at this time that the third industrial revolution,

known as the digital revolution, truly began.

With the advancement of analog and digital electronics,

humanity began to utilize life-changing technologies

on a daily basis, including the personal computer,

the Internet, and the entire spectrum

of information and communication technologies.

Many of these things are the things

you're responsible for within your organization,

and it was during this third industrial revolution

that ITIL was first created.

ITIL was first developed as a series of

best practices and guidance

on how to run an information technology organization.

In fact, ITIL, as it was originally developed,

was an acronym that stood for

Information Technology Infrastructure Library.

ITIL began in the 1980s as a way for organizations

to create processes and procedures

to better run their IT systems.

Throughout the last three decades,

ITIL became the de facto standard

around the world for IT service management.

As we moved as a society from the

first industrial revolution, to the second,

and then onto the third,

we're now at a crossroads again.

Now, we're moving into the fourth industrial revolution,

and it is happening right now.

The fourth industrial revolution is marked

by the creation of cyber-physical systems,

where a fusion of technologies has blurred the lines

between physical and digital realms.

This includes the use of technologies like

robotics, nanotechnology,

artificial intelligence, the Internet of things,

autonomous cars, and so much more.

This explosive growth in technology

in the early 21st century has transformed

our world economies, as well as ourselves.

So, you may be wondering right now,

"Why are we spending time talking about the history

of various industrial revolutions that occurred

over the past few hundred years?"

Well, it's to make this point:

ITIL 4 is not considered ITIL version 4,

instead it's ITIL for the fourth industrial revolution.

ITIL is no longer considered an acronym.

ITIL is a brand name.

It simply means ITIL, it doesn't mean

Information Technology Infrastructure Library anymore,

because ITIL is more than just infrastructure.

This is a major shift in the way ITIL approaches

the challenges of IT service management

based on this as well.











In today's digital economy,

every organization in the world

has become a service organization.

You may think your organization

isn't a service organization,

but when you really look at what it does on a daily basis,

it truly is a service organization.

For example,

you may work for a grocery store,

and you may think you're in the business

of selling milk and cereal,

which are both products,

but in reality, you're probably really

a service organization too.

Most of the services,

if not all of the services

that your company currently owns and manages,

is done to co-create value with your customers.

And these are enabled by information technology.

Now, how can I make this claim?

Well, let's consider the large retailer like Walmart,

who sells a large variety of different products,

from diapers to groceries to electronics and car tires.

Walmart has been wildly successful

in selling all of these different products,

but the particular products Walmart sells,

doesn't really matter that much.

Instead the real reason that Walmart has been so successful,

is that their available to provide a service

to their customers that no one else

has been able to do the way they have.

And that is a collection of services that's enabled by IT.

Walmart, for example,

has created a wonderfully robust

distribution and logistics system

to get their products to their stores quickly,

efficiently, and more cost-effectively than other people.

And this allows them to rely

on complex inventory tracking and logistic systems,

that are all run by various IT components and services.

They've been able to do this to provide products

at their everyday low price,

which is actually the service

they provide to their customers.

Walmart's service is bringing you the products

you want or need at the lowest price, always.

Other stores can't bring that to you at the same level

or the same cost that Walmart can.

So, in a price battle,

Walmart is going to win every time,

because of their ability to embrace IT

to enable their services.

But how is Walmart co-creating value with me,

the customer?

Lets say I was having a party tonight,

and I've invited you over for dinner.

I might run over to Walmart to buy all the supplies I need.

Things like meat and cheeses,

vegetables and drinks,

and I bring them all back to my kitchen.

I then use all those ingredients

to cook a meal for my party tonight.

The value isn't the ingredients that I got from Walmart.

It's the outcome that I had

when I co-created value with Walmart.

Walmart provided all the ingredients at a low price,

and I've provided the ability to cook it all up

into a delicious meal.

Now, the value is the happiness and the full bellies

of all of my guests at my party.

This is the value co-created through the service.

Now, as you think about all the different industries

and organizations in the world,

it's really hard to think of any

that aren't providing some kind of service

that is enabled by technology.

Because of this, technology has become commonplace

in the modern workplace.

But all of this technology needs to be managed

in order for it to be effective and enabling value

to your customers by providing services.

And this brings us to the concept of service management.

Service management is defined

as a set of specialized organizational capabilities

for enabling value to customers in the form of services.

The purpose of ITIL 4 is to provide organizations,

working in this modern service economy,

with guidance from managing their information technology

and information technology dependencies effectively,

efficiently, and in some coordinated,

structured, and integrated way

that combines the agility,

the time to market,

and their ability to deliver new things faster,

while using their risk controls and providing insurance

that the services will be performed properly today,

tomorrow, and any day further off into the future.

Notice, this isn't just about providing a service

fast to a customer,

but it's also about being able to balance that

with the proper controls so that

that is providing a quality service,

now and into the future.

This ensures that there's a balance of speed

in control within our organizations and their services.

Simply put, ITIL 4 provides organizations

with a comprehensive framework for IT service management.

This framework is designed to ensure that an effective,

efficient, flexible,

coordinated, and integrated system

for the governance and management

of services is established.

It also is concerned with ensuring that these services

are continually improving within your organization.

Now, if you're new to the business world

or information technology,

the word "governance"

might be one that you're not quite familiar with.

Governance is simply the means

by which an organization is directed and controlled.

This means that it involves all of the processes needed

to govern or oversee the running of the organization.

For example, in the United States,

our government creates rules and laws that are used

as a method to direct the actions of its citizens.

This is called governance, right?

It's the way that we operate a country.

Well, organizations need governance too.

And at your company,

there's a process probably for everything you need to do.

Think about it if you wanted to take two weeks of vacation.

You couldn't simply decide just to not go to work

for two weeks without telling your boss, right?

You'd probably end up losing your job.

Now, instead,

you're going to go through the process to request a vacation,

and that process is going to be different

based on your organization or my organization.

Because each organization runs itself

and its processes differently.

That way that they run things,

that's known as governance.









As I stated in the last section of this course,

ITIL is a framework for

information technology service management, known as ITSM.

According to ITIL Four,

service management is defined as

a set of specialized organizational capabilities

for enabling value to customers in the form of services.

Whenever we speak about an organizational capability,

such as in this definition of service management,

this is referring to an organization having both

the capacity and the ability

to perform the functions required.

Service management, whether you're performing it

using ITIL Four as its framework or another ITSM framework,

is focused on how to best create value

within an organization to provide

the desired benefits to your consumers.

Now to do that, an organization must organize its people

to best support the organization's activities,

practices, and processes.

These activities, practices, and processes are the engine

that drive the creation of the organization's products

and their services,

but none of these activities, practices, and processes

could be done in isolation.

Instead, we have to consider the service relationships

that are built, created, and nurtured throughout

the service management process.

In this section of the course,

we're going to discuss these generalized concepts

of service management that apply to both ITIL Four

and other frameworks.

Then, we're going to spend a bit of time going over

the concepts of outcomes, risks, utility, and warranty

to help build a solid foundation before we move into

the specific ITIL Four concepts that are covered

throughout the rest of this course.

So let's get started learning about service management

and its key concepts.














What is value?

Well in ITL 4, value is the perceived benefits,

usefulness, and importance of something.

Now I know this is very generic.

But let's dig into the short definition and explore it a bit

because value is an extremely important concept

inside of ITIL and service management in general.

First, notice in the definition that value is perceived.

This means that the amount of value

something has is always subjective.

Who gets to determine this perceived amount of value?

Well the privilege is reserved

for the recipient of the value.

So let me give you an example to help clarify it.

There's two roommates, Julia and John.

One afternoon, they both decide

they want to go get an orange.

They walk over to the refrigerator

to each get themself an orange

and find that there's only one left in the fruit drawer.

They begin to fight with each other

because each person really wants that orange for themselves.

Julia says she values the orange more

and she should have it.

But John quickly retorts that he values the orange more

and that he should have it.

Neither person explains to the other

why they want the orange.

Instead they don't tell them about the value

they perceive that it has.

But being omniscient as the narrator in this example,

I know exactly what each of them

wants to do with that orange.

Julia's hungry and she desired to have

a sweet and healthy afternoon snack.

So if she gets the orange, she plans to cut it apart,

eat the sweet, juicy flesh inside of it,

and throw away the peel.

Now in her perceived value of this orange,

the inside of the orange holds 100% of the value

and the peel is garbage, it's worthless.

John on the other hand, he's a baker,

and this afternoon he wanted to make some orange cupcakes.

So he needed the orange peel

to be able to zest it into the batter.

If he gets the orange, he intends to simply use the peel

and throw away the orange and sweet inside into the trash.

Unlike Julia who places 100% of the orange's value

on it's ability to be eaten as an afternoon snack,

John believes that that part of the orange

is completely worthless.

Instead, he places 100% of the value into the orange peel.

Now I'm sure you can see the

interesting thing here about value.

This one orange could serve 100% of the needs

for each person involved in this transaction.

If only they could communicate

their true desires for that orange.

They could both have 100% of the value

because the value is perceived by the end recipient.

And in this case, our two roommates

each view it differently.

Now to the grocer who was

the original supplier of this orange,

he sold that orange for a single dollar.

Had he'd known that they both value that $1 orange

for different reasons, maybe he would have

cut the orange apart, separate the insides

away from the peel and sold each portion for a dollar each.

And if he done that to each of the roommates,

he would have doubled the orange's value for himself.

Now I know that sounds a little crazy,

but I bet on exam day you're going to

remember about this orange and value.

You're going to remember that the amount of value

that something has is based on

the recipient's perception of that value right?

It's the recipient that actually is

expected to get the value from the products,

from those relationships, from those services,

from whatever it is we're expecting to deliver,

or to facilitate the value for them.

Because of this, value is always considered subjective.

And it can be quite different

from what the original supplier planned for.

It may be different from what they

had described the product as

or what service it was going to fulfill,

and from what we originally agreed to.

This subjectivity should be captured,

measured, and evaluated because

this is what we have to work with as an organization

that performs service management.

Now let's get back to our definition of value once more.

Value is the perceived benefits,

usefulness, and importance of something.

As I said before this definition is a bit generic right.

This is because it uses this vague term of something.

This word was specifically chosen by the creator's of ITIL

because service management goes beyond

just services these days.

Because the perceived benefits and usefulness of something

really do depend on the context

that it's being talked about.

In each given context, we know what that something is.

And we know what it means in the value definition.

But in a generic definition like this,

we can't simply list all of the things something could be.

So something becomes that placeholder.

Because when we talk about value,

value is really based on these relationships as well.

And we're going to discuss those

service relationships in a future lesson.













Organizations and people.

When we've discussed the concept of an organization

inside of ITIL 4,

the organization is not limited

to a service provider organization,

or an internal information technology organization,

or even an information technology organization at large.

Instead, we're just looking at this

as a generic organization.

But what exactly is an organization anyway?

Well, ITIL 4 defines an organization

as a person or a group of people

that has its own functions with responsibilities,

authorities, and relationships to achieve its objectives.

Notice this definition is pretty generic

and, again, this is done on purpose by the creators of ITIL

because it allows ITIL to be more widely used

and adapted to any organization.

In ITIL 4, there are two basic roles

that an organization can fulfill.

A service provider is a role performed by an organization

in a service relationship to provide services to consumers.

Conversely, a consumer is a role

performed by an organization in the relationship

that uses or consumes those services.

Organizations vary in size and complexity as well.

Now, organizations can also vary in their legal structure,

in that they can be a single person, a team,

or even a complex multinational corporation.

What really bounds an organization together

is a set of common objectives,

relationships, and authorities.

Now, this may seem strange,

especially when considering a single person

that can act as an organization,

but it really does work this way in the real world.

When I created my company Dion Training Solutions,

it was created as a sole proprietorship originally.

I was a single person operating as an organization

in all of my business relationships.

Now, an organization can be a team of people

working towards a common objective too.

As my company has gotten bigger,

we now have two teams of people

which make up two distinct organizations

within the company.

One is the training team, which I lead,

and the other is our operations team,

which my director of operations leads.

This is an example of how people organize

around common goals within a larger business organization

to achieve common objectives in a coordinated method.

Now, in most of these cases,

the common objectives are usually

trying to create value for the consumer,

but the way value is actually achieved

has changed in ITIL 4.

Previously, value was considered something

that was delivered from a service provider

to the consumer of the service.

But this wasn't entirely accurate

the way it was done in the real world.

In fact, it was so inaccurate that sayings like,

delivering something is easy

but delivering something of value is hard,

began to spring up all throughout

the IT management service industry.

So instead, ITIL 4 recognizes that value must be co-created

by the service provider and the consumer.

Now, what does this mean for us in the real world?

Well, let's take this course as an example.

My team and I have spent a lot of time

preparing this course, filming this course,

editing this course, and publishing this course,

so that you can get value from it.

But we have to co-create that value together.

As the supplier, I've provided you with all the videos,

the quizzes, the practice exam, the web servers,

access to the training, downloadable PDFs, all of that.

But as the consumer you have to actually watch those videos,

study the definitions, practice with the quizzes,

take the practice exam,

not to mention you have to have

a laptop, a tablet, or a phone

to even access these videos and be able to watch them,

as well as a stable high-speed Internet connection.

To achieve the desired outcome and value from this course,

we both have to work hard

and meet our ends of this obligation.

That's the idea of co-creation of value

by the service provider, me and my team,

and you, the consumer.

This is how it works inside of ITIL 4.

Now, as much as I'd love be able

to simply create the value for you

as soon as you make the purchase,

we don't have that technology yet

to instantly load up the information into your head.

This isn't "The Matrix," after all.

Instead, you have to help me

to create the value we both want.

As the supplier, I can try really hard

to deliver that value,

but if you as the consumer don't actually cooperate

and turn on the videos and watch them,

well, then the value simply won't be created,

because the value is the outcome.

This is why relationships between organizations

such as the supplier and the consumer

have become very complex.

In its simplest form,

the provider will deliver a service,

the consumer will pay for the service,

and the provider then uses that money

to create more services

while the consumer uses the current service they paid for.

Now, if both sides are getting the value they desire

from that transaction, then this is mutually beneficial.

If the value is not achieved

by either of these sides, though,

then it's likely that this relationship

will soon come to an end

and no more value will emerge from it.

Unfortunately, the real world is much more complex

than the simple example of value creation I just gave.

At any moment, an organization can be

a consumer and a provider for multiple services.

Let's take my organization, for example.

I'm a supplier in relation to you,

but I'm also a consumer in my relationship

with my web hosting provider.

These are just different hats being worn by my organization

depending on which perspective we're looking at things from.

This means that when my organization

is acting as a consumer,

we co-create value by consuming services,

and when we're acting as a provider,

we co-create value by providing services

to other organizations and people.

Organizations recognize that value is co-created

through an active collaboration

between providers and consumers

as well as other organizations

that are part of the relevant service relationships.

These service provider and service consumer roles

are the two generic roles that an organization can fulfill.

People, though, can fulfill three other types of roles.

This is the role of a user, a customer, and a sponsor.

The first role is that of a user.

A user is simply a person who uses a service.

The second role is that of a customer.

A customer is a person

who defines the requirements for a service

and takes responsibility for the outcomes

of service consumption.

The third role is that of a sponsor.

A sponsor is a person who authorizes the budget

for service consumption.

The term sponsor is also used in some organizations

to describe an organization or department or an individual

that provides financial or other support for an initiative.

While these are the three roles,

these roles could be fulfilled by different people,

or all three of these roles could be fulfilled

by the same person.

Sometimes in business you get to act

as one, two, or three of these roles,

depending on the scenario.

For example, you may define

what is needed for your business team

and you may have the authority to allocate

and authorize the budget for those requirements,

and you're going to be both the customer and sponsor

in that case,

but your team members are going to be the users

'cause they're going to use what you buy.

This is actually a great position to be in

because the person authorizing the budget

is also the person making the requirements decisions.

And unfortunately, though,

in a lot of large organizations,

the person who authorizes the budget for an IT service

is not a customer or a user of that service.

And this type of disconnect can actually cause problems

because the sponsor who funds the requirements

and the customer who creates those requirements

often have arguments over what those requirements should be,

because the sponsor's focused

on the efficiency and cost savings,

whereas the customers are focused on the requirements,

and the users are focused on the usability of this service.

This can create a gap between the user

and the customer's interest as well.

As a service provider, it's our responsibility to recognize

these three generic roles on a consumer side

and to work with them appropriately

to ensure the right service is being delivered

and supplied to meet those needs.

This means we need to ensure

that the financials work for the sponsor,

that the requirements are met for the customer,

and the users get what they expect in usability

of our service.

At the end of the day, we want to achieve user satisfaction,

customer satisfaction, and sponsor satisfaction,

because when all three come together

we're more likely to have repeat business

from the consumer's organization.














ITIL was first created around the idea of how to conduct

service management within our organizations, so it should

be no surprise that we have a specific definition

of what is considered a service.

According to ITIL Four, a service is a means of enabling

value co-creation by facilitating outcomes that the customer

wants to achieve, without that customer having to manage

the specific costs and risks.

Now, let's dig into this definition, one piece at a time.

First, service is a means of enabling value co-creation.

This portion of the definition is a reference back

to how value is determined, as a result of the relationship

between the provider of the service

and the customer of the service.

Next, the second portion of the definition says that

this is done by facilitating outcomes

that customers want to achieve.

Again, this goes back to the concept of value.

If I'm giving you something as a service provider

that doesn't help you as the customer to achieve

your objectives, well, then it doesn't have any value.

After all, the service provider can't achieve

your objectives for you.

You have to achieve them yourself.

The service provider is only able to facilitate

the achievement of those customer outcomes.

I can ensure your computer is up and able to run a program,

but if you don't provide the necessary inputs

to that program, you're going to be unable to get the necessary

outputs and eventually the outcomes you desire.

Now the final portion of the service definition states

that this co-created value is created

without the customer having to manage

specific costs and risks.

This refers to the whole reason why a customer hires

a service provider in the first place.

For example, I'm a customer of a web-hosting company

that hosts all of my training videos, so my organization

pays this web-hosting company a monthly fee

for hosting terabytes of video files for us,

and in exchange for that service,

we pay them a nominal monthly fee.

It's their job as the service provider to manage

all the specific costs and risks associated

with that service.

For example, our contract allows for unlimited

data storage on their servers, and unlimited bandwidth

to be used without incurring any additional costs to us,

under our contract, because we negotiated

a fixed-fee contract.

Now, my company employs a lot of very technical folks.

I personally have been responsible for running

hundreds of web servers, domain controllers, mail servers

and file servers throughout my career.

So why doesn't Dion Training maintain and host our own web

servers to host all of our video training courses?

Well, simply put, we don't want to have to deal

with the costs and the risks of providing

that particular service.

It just isn't the business that we're in any more, right?

Instead, we're focused on training.

Our business is all about training,

not running these large server farms.

We don't want to have to deal with the patching, the updating,

the backups, scaling up and scaling down, based on load

demands, and all of that.

Instead, for a negotiated flat fee, with our service

provider, we can take all of those costs and risks

from us, and we can simply pay our contracted rate,

and the service provider gets to deal with it.

This is exactly what the service definition

is referring to.

So, let's take a look at that service definition,

on more time.

A service is a means of enabling value co-creation

by facilitating outcomes that customers want to achieve,

without the customer having to manage

specific costs and risks.

So, in addition to services, a service organization

can actually provide services based on products

that they have, as well.

Now, a product is a configuration of an organization's

resources that's designed to offer value for a consumer.

I like to think of this as the collection of services

that we put together to give more value

than they could individually.

Now every organization works with a set of resources.

These resources are either owned by the organizations,

belong to the organization, or are managed

by the organization.

These resources may even be supporting services provided

by the organization's suppliers and their partners.

These resources can be leased, or rented.

These resources could even be the people who work

in an organization, under a contractual agreement,

because these people are a resource

to the organization, too.

Now, the way an organization configures all those resources

into an set offering is the essence of a product.

For example, Amazon web services, or AWS, has a lot

of different service offerings, including server hosting,

under their EC2 brand, file storage, under S3,

domain name server systems, under route 53,

and many others, but these services,

they aren't necessarily considered products.

Now, if you compare these individual services

with the Amazon Lightsail product, you can see

how Amazon has combined their EC2, their S3,

and their Route 53 services into a single product

that can be sold directly to a customer

in a defined configuration.

Everything that makes up Lightsail is available

as a service individually from AWS, but when combined

under the Lightsail product, Amazon removed a lot of

the complexity and confusion associated

with that typical new customer's journey into the AWS,

and into cloud computing.

So I know we covered a lot in this lesson, but there's

two key definitions that we covered that you need to know.

First, is service.

A service is a means of enabling value co-creation

by facilitating outcomes that the customer wants to achieve,

without the customer having to manage

those specific costs and risks, and the second one

is a product.

A product is simply a configuration of an organization's

resources designed to offer value for a consumer.

Keep those two definitions in your head,

because you're going to need them come test day.













In this lesson, I want to briefly consider

the concept of a service offering.

A service offering is a description

of one or more services designed to address

the needs of a target consumer group.

In essence, a service provider

is going to present their services

to customers or consumers

in the form of service offerings,

which describes one or more of their services

that are based on one or more of their products.

Now, service offerings can include goods,

access to resources, and service actions

as part of that service offering.

Let's take my own company

as an example of a service provider.

We have many different products

that can help you when you're studying

for your certification exams.

We have courses on ITIL, Prince2,

and numerous Comp TIA certifications.

Each course contains a set of videos,

that's one product.

A practice exam or two, that's another product,

and some amount of access to the instructor

to ask questions, that will be a service.

It shows you how we can group and sell

those different products and services,

multiple times in multiple different ways

depending on the consumer we're trying to reach.

You may have seen this with companies

that offer things as a monthly service

where different service offerings happen

based on the different functionalities

at the different price points.

For example, I use Hulu at my home,

which is a video on demand service.

Hulu has a few different pricing tiers.

The cheapest option is about eight dollars per month,

and it gives you all the TV shows you want,

but you have to watch commercials.

Instead, we decided to opt the next higher price,

which is going to allow us to pay 12 dollars per month,

but it eliminates all of those commercials.

Now Hulu even has added a third tier.

They have a 40 dollar per month offering.

And this gives you access to all the TV

without commercials,

but it also gives you access to live news,

sports and other things in a cloud based DVR service.

So as you moved up the pricing tier,

you got additional services

as part of that service offering.

Now let's go back one more time

to the definition of a service offering.

If you remember, a service offering is a description

of one or more services

designed to address the needs

of a target consumer group.

Now remember, service offerings can include goods,

access to resources, and service actions

as part of that service offering too.

So before we close out this lesson,

we're going to quickly define these three items.

First, we have goods.

Goods are things that are supplied to the consumer.

These are things that are transferred

from the service provider to the consumer,

and once that occurs, the consumer is now responsible

for that future use.

For example, if you went and signed up

for a new service offerings

from your local cell phone provider,

they're going to give you a phone that you can use,

but you're now responsible for that phone.

If you break it,

you're going to have to pay to get a new one.

If you lose it and somebody makes

a thousand dollars in long distance calls,

well, you're going to be the one getting the bill.

The goods, meaning the cell phone here

were transferred from the service provider to you.

And now you as the consumer are responsible for it.

The second thing is service might offer

is to provide access to resources.

This means that access to resources is granted

or a license is given to a consumer

under some agreed terms and conditions.

My website is a great example of this.

You're given access to the videos, the practice exams,

hands on labs, and all the other stuff

that we have there.

You're given a license to use them

under the terms and conditions,

that you agreed to when you signed up.

These resources all remain under

the service providers control

and the service provider is responsible

for ensuring that you can use them

in the way that it was promised.

Now here's where things

get a little messy for consumers sometimes though.

Sometimes you may not like the way the service provider

is willing to let you use their service.

For example, our website doesn't allow videos

to be downloaded,

because we're a subscription based service.

We didn't transfer

the ownership of that video to you.

Instead, we're just giving you the access

or a license to it.

To use it and watch it as much as you want,

as long as your subscription remains active.

Now if you don't like those terms and conditions,

you're going to have to find a different course

or a different way to purchase that course

that does allow you to have that one time payment.

Where you can download it

and use it as much as you want.

But again, that's up to the relationship

between you and your service provider.

As a service provider, we control the resource

and we're giving you access to it,

under this service offering.

Now, the third thing that might be a part

of a service offering is a service action.

This is an action of performed to address

a consumers need.

Let's use the example of a piece of software,

that you might have a license for

when you're building a website.

For example, our website uses a piece of software

as the basis of our learning management system.

We paid for the software with a one time fee,

and we were given rights to use it indefinitely,

as much as we want

without having to pay any recurring fees.

Now, this falls under the goods category, right?

Well, that part of it does,

but for that one time fee,

we're not going to get any support

and we're not getting any updates, or patches.

And if we want that technical support

for the software,

including the patches and the security updates,

then we're going to have to pay for

that part of the service offering,

which is considered a service action.

Because of this, we've opted to pay

an annual fee to the company,

and in return for that,

we have 24 hour a day, seven days a week

technical support access to their staff,

and we can ask any questions we want.

And we also get access to all the security updates

and patches, as they're going to be released.

So that's the difference between goods,

access to resources, and service actions.

Goods are going to be transferred over to the consumer.

Access to the resources is going to let the consumer

access them on the terms and conditions in the license

that has been granted from the service provider.

And service actions are going to be covering things

that are going to be ongoing things,

like technical support and customer service fees.













Service relationships, this is what being

a service provider is all about.

To create value, an organization

has to provide more than just a service.

They have to work with their consumers and their customers

to build an ongoing relationship.

Now in the business world, just as in our love life,

relationships are challenging and sometimes difficult.

In this lesson, we're going to take a look

at what a service relationship is

and why it can be so complicated.

First, let's cover the definition of a service relationship.

A service relationship is a cooperation

between a service provider and a service consumer

that includes service provision, service consumption,

and service relationship management.

This is a fairly straightforward concept.

Basically, it's when two organizations

want to work together,

they have a relationship that's formed.

During this relationship, one of these organizations

might assume the role of the service provider

and the other becomes the consumer.

Right now, you and I have a service relationship.

I'm the service provider and you're the consumer

of the training service that we're offering,

but like I said, it can be

much, much more complicated than that,

but I'm getting a little ahead of myself here.

Let's first talk about service provision.

What is service provision?

Well, service provision is the activities

that are performed by an organization

to provide the services.

This includes things like managing

the service provider's resources,

configuring them to deliver the service,

providing access to the resources to the users,

and fulfilling the agreed-upon service actions

as well as conducting service level management

and even performing continual improvement to those services.

Service provision can even include

supplying goods to the consumer, as well.

Now let's consider when you go and buy a new cellphone

from your cellphone service provider.

You walk into the store and they give you a phone,

which is good, right, and they activate your phone

by giving you a brand new phone number,

and this is actually called account provisioning.

This establishes your new user account,

your new phone number, in this case,

and they assign different features such as voicemail

and text messaging and a data plan

and other things to your account.

By the time they're done, you can walk out of the store

with your new phone, your new phone number,

and working cellular service.

That is all service provisioning by your service provider.

Now when you walk out the door,

you're going to use your new cellphone,

and now you're going to become a consumer who's beginning to do

what is known as service consumption.

Service consumption includes all of the activities

performed by an organization, or a single person,

in the case of your new cellphone,

and this is going to allow you to consume those new services.

Service consumption includes things like the management

of the consumer's resources that are needed

to use the service, such as you paying your bill every month

to make sure the service stays working,

as well as all the other actions you perform to utilize

the provider's resources, such as checking your email

or making phone calls on your new smartphone,

or it can even be requesting new service actions

to be fulfilled.

For example, you might be getting ready to fly

from one country to another and you need

your service provider to enable data roaming on your phone.

This, again, is one of those things that can happen

inside of service consumption.

When the consumer is doing something,

this is called service consumption.

Now in addition to service provisioning

and service consumption,

there are some activities that are done

by both the service provider and the service consumer,

and when they do these things together,

they're trying to enable value co-creation to occur

based upon the agreed and available service offerings.

This is known as service relationship management.

The most basic of the things here are things

like having the consumer paying their bill on time

so their monthly subscription doesn't get canceled

and the service doesn't get turned off.

Or it may be that the service provider needs to ensure

they're communicating with the consumer

about a possible network outage that's going to occur

because this weekend, there's going to be a server upgrade.

This back and forth communication

is what we call service relationship management.

So now that we know a little bit

about service relationships, including service provisioning,

service consumption, and service relationship management,

let's dig in to the complicated portion of this topic,

the service relationship model.

As I said, business can be complicated, and because of this,

we have to consider the different relationships

that are involved in any single service.

For example, let's consider my website, diontraining.com.

We offer training services over video to our students,

students just like you.

Now if you're watching this video on diontraining.com,

that means there are a lot

of different service relationships

that have already occurred behind the scenes

to enable that to happen.

Let's place you in the Organization D spot

here on the far right.

Now you want to watch this video, but for that to happen,

the video has to get to you.

Well, that happens because you have a service relationship

in place with our company.

In this relationship, you are the consumer

and we're the service provider, but to make this work,

we rely on service providers, as well.

We don't host our own videos, for example, but instead,

we outsource that to a very large video streaming company

with cloud servers all over the world to ensure

that you get the best quality with the lowest latency.

Let's put them up here as Organization B.

Now in the relationship between Dion Training

and the video streaming company, we are the consumer

and the video streaming company is the service provider,

but that video streaming service we use,

they don't even own their own servers.

No, instead they rely on Google Cloud, and that means

the video streaming service is actually a consumer, too,

while Google is going to be the service provider.

But to make it even more complicated,

there are departments inside of Google

that work on IT systems, right?

Well, some of those people are actually members

of my website, and so when they're logged into my website

to watch those videos, they're now going to be the consumers

and I'm the service provider once more.

You can see how this interrelationship

can get really messy and really complicated.

Organizations are going to be both a service provider

to someone and a service consumer themself.

If I was going to draw out every relationship

for every service offering within my company,

I would have to fill 100 or more of these screens

because of all of the different relationships we have,

and we're just a small company.

If you think about how messy this would be

for somebody like Facebook or LinkedIn

or Microsoft or Google, it can just blow your mind.

Your organization may be a service provider

or a service consumer, or they can be both.

It all depends on the scenario

and the service relationships that are involved.
















Back when we discussed the definition of a service,

we said that a service

was a means of enabling value co-creation

by facilitating outcomes that a customer wants to achieve,

without the customer having to manage

the specific costs and risks.

Now in this lesson,

we're going to dig into a single word from that definition;

the word outcome.

An outcome is a result for a stakeholder,

enabled by one or more outputs.

This is focused on the customer's desired outcome,

not the service provider's though,

and this is important to understand.

Now outcomes are important to consider

as part of the balancing act,

between the supported outcomes, the removal of costs,

and the removal of risks against unwanted,

or undesirable outcomes, the costs, and the risk

that could be introduced by the customer

if they decide to instead,

set up and manage their own resources.

Now, let's consider an example

of what we're really discussing here.

In my local area,

we have two major ride-sharing companies that operate.

Now, I really like these ride-sharing services,

especially when I'm traveling to a large downtown area

for a conference or a convention,

or when I need to get from the airport to my house,

or something like that.

Now, as a customer, I have a desired outcome.

I want to get from point A to point B

in the least amount of time, with a fair amount of cost.

For example, the last trip I took to San Francisco,

I didn't even need to rent a car,

because I simply used Uber and Lyft

to get from the airport to my hotel,

and from my hotel to various locations around the city

that I need to go to for my work.

Now, this allowed me to get the outcome that I desired,

which was getting from point A to point B

in less time, and with less hassle.

Now, because I used the Uber app,

I was able to reduce my overall cost,

because I didn't need to have a rental car.

I didn't need to spend $75 per night

to park that rental car at my hotel,

and I didn't need to buy gas for that rental car.

I didn't need to purchase insurance for the rental car.

You're getting the idea here.

I was able to remove a lot of the costs,

because as a customer,

I simply paid for the service every time I needed it,

and I was able to achieve my desired outcome,

getting from point A to point B.

Now, if we consider the risks involved,

I was able to reduce some of my risk as well.

For example, I tend to find it very difficult

to park in large cities,

especially near the areas of town

that I need to visit for a work trip.

So, when I used Uber, I could eliminate the risk

of not finding adequate parking,

when I got to my desired location.

Instead, I just get out of the car and I'm there.

I also eliminated the risk

of somebody stealing my rental car while it's parked,

or breaking into it and stealing my luggage.

All those type of things are eliminated,

and it's no longer a risk for me.

Now, conversely though, I need to balance this

with the other side of the equation.

There are certain costs and risks that I'm assuming,

by choosing to use Uber or Lyft,

instead of renting my own car.

First, there's cost imposed upon me

by the service provider.

Beyond the actual service cost to get

from point A to point B, there's also a requirement

that I maintain a smart phone to run the app,

and I have to ensure that I have a data plan

on that smart phone,

and I have to make sure that my smart phone

has enough battery power.

All of this are things that have to happen,

so that I can connect the app from my phone

to their central server,

in order to order that Uber to my location

and have them pick me up.

Now, this goes back to our original point

about value, right?

Value is co-created,

and a service is all about co-creating value

by facilitating those outcomes

that the customer wants to achieve

without the customer having to manage

the specific costs and risks of that service.

So as a customer of this ride-sharing service,

I need to co-create the value of the service

by having a smart phone, and an active data plan,

and enough battery power to run it.

Now Uber, on the other hand,

needs to ensure that all the other

technical details of the service,

are taken care of.

They're going to provide the servers that enable the service.

They're going to enable the technology,

and the software code, and all of that other stuff.

Now, I mentioned that the customer

doesn't want to manage the specific costs and risks.

What risks might there be with using an Uber

instead of having your own rental car?

Well, I've had an occasion or two

where I've had to wait for my Uber to arrive

because there's none in the area,

and sometimes this will take me 10 or 15 minutes.

Now, if I'm running a really tight schedule,

there's a risk that I can miss my meeting.

There's also a risk that a driver just isn't in the area

when I need one.

And so, if you happen to go to a city center

where there's a lot of Ubers,

and you travel to a location in the suburbs

where there's not a lot of Ubers,

well, this can become a problem,

when you're tryin' to get a ride back to the city.

This is a risk that you're going to assume.

If you had a rental car, you wouldn't have this risk,

'cause you could simply jump in the car,

turn the key and start driving.

Now, as we have these costs and risks

that the service has now imposed upon me,

as their customer, I now have to decide

whether I should ultimately use their service,

or say it's not worth the effort,

and I'll simply rent a car and drive myself around.

Now, this is the idea that we're all going to be thinking about

when we think about a service,

whether we're the one using the service,

or the one providing the service.

That decision is going to be based on value.

All of this comes back to value.

If the value is being co-created

to achieve the supported outcomes,

then the removal of the costs and the removal of risk

has to be greater than the unintended consequences.

And if that's true,

the introduction of these new costs,

or the introduction of new risks,

has to be balanced and shifted

in the favor of the consumer,

if you want them to buy the service

from the service provider.

In this case, ordering an Uber or a Lyft

instead of renting a car.

It's all just about balancing this value, right?

If we're the service provider

or a service provider organization,

like Uber in this case,

we need to make sure that we're giving more value,

and removing more costs and risks than we're introducing.

And this way, the customer'll want to use it.

Now in order for the customer to see the value

that we're generating, this has to be true.

It has to tip the scales towards the customer side.

Now as a service provider,

we want to make sure we're getting value in this, too.

If we're the customer,

we need to make sure that we're not creating

additional costs or risks for ourself

that outweigh the benefits of the service

that we're going to consume.

So, if I'm going to go ahead and outsource my servers,

I want to make sure that it's cheaper for me to do that,

and provides me more value for me to do that,

than just to simply run the servers myself.

Now each personal organization

is going to weigh the value proposition,

and they're going to determine if it makes sense for them.

If it does, we're going to have a valid business agreement,

and we're going to be able to go into business together.

You're going to provide me a service,

and I'm going to pay you to do that

as the consumer or the customer.

So, going back to my example of Uber or Lyft,

I find it works great for me

when I'm traveling in a big city,

where the parking prices tend to be very high,

the traffic tends to be heavy,

and the number of drivers around is quite abundant,

so it's easy for me to get a Lyft or an Uber

when I need one.

But, when I travel to more remote locations,

I prefer to have my own rental car,

because it solves the problem for me

much more efficiently,

because there's less risk of me not finding a parking space

because parking is low-cost in those areas,

and traffic is less of an issue,

because I'm outside the city center.

This is the whole idea of balancing

those pros and those cons,

so we can make the idea,

and figure out what gives us the most value.










In this lesson, we're going to discuss costs.

Now, the cost of something is the amount of money

that spent on a particular activity or

a particular resource.

While cost is usually expressed financially,

it can also be expressed in nonfinancial ways too.

For example, when we create a new course here,

we actually measure the cost of the course

in the number of hours spent creating it.

A typical course, like this one,

might require 400 or 500 hours worth of effort

across our entire staff.

This usually is described in either the measurement

of man hours, or FTE.

Man hours are also known as person hours,

because we want to be equal opportunist here.

FTEs, on the other hand,

stands for Full Time Equivalent.

And it's used to measure things based on a single

employee, who works 40 hours per week,

for an entire year.

This equates to roughly 2,000 hours worth of work.

So, if we need to run a web server

to host all of our courses,

that might require half of an FTE.

Or one-half of a person's annual available work hours

for the entire year.

This describes the number of FTEs, or

Full Time Equivalent employees that are required

in order to undertake a particular activity.

Now, while I can measure things from a an hours

of effort perspective,

this does ultimately translate back to financial cost.

Each team member on my team earns a salary.

And if it takes somebody half of their entire year

to run that web server,

that means half of their salary is tied up

in keeping that web server up and running.

So, it does end up going back to cost eventually.

But, when we look at our reports,

we're actually more concerned with the amount

of time things take, than the amount of money

we spend on 'em.

Now, depending on your organization,

you may choose to measure things based

on the man hours, the person hours, the FTEs,

or using actual dollar and cents that are expended.

Either way, the service provider is aiming

to reduce or remove costs,

when they provide a service.

So, if a service provider can save you more money

than their service is going to cost you,

you're certainly going to look at using

that service, right?

I know I would.

For example,

my internet service provider has varying speeds available,

that we can choose to use here at our office.

We can choose to spend $50 per month for 100 megabit

per second connection.

Or, $100 a month for a 1,000 megabit per

second connection.

Which one should we choose?

Well, in our case, we upload a lot of large files,

because of all the videos that we produce.

And when we looked at the speed that we

were going to purchase,

we decided that paying twice as much money per month,

for a ten-times increase in speed, was well worth it.

Because it saves our staff a lot of time

uploading those files.

So, it became an easy decision.

Because spending $50 more per month on the

faster internet connection,

made my staff much more productive.

And it saved us a lot of wasted labor hours.

And this more than made up for the additional cost

in the labor savings that we were able to get.

That's the idea when you look at costs.

If you're going to outsource a service,

or you're going to pay for something,

you want to make sure it's giving you more value

than what it's costing you.

In our case, spending twice as much on internet,

gave us 10 times more value.

And so it was definitely worth doing.













At this point in the course,

we've already mentioned the word risk a few times,

but I wanted to dive into it

in a little bit more detail in this lesson.

Risk refers to a possible event that could cause

harm, loss, or make it more difficult

to achieve your objectives.

Essentially, it's any possible event that could impact

our ability to co-create that value through our services.

Generally, when most people think of risk

and service management, they think about it

from a new insallation or a project perspective.

But risk is also present in the form of our services too.

From a service provider perspective, our goal is to

minimize risk for our customers who use our services.

In this way, risks are similar to costs.

But just like costs, our customers will assume

that some new risk is going to occur

as part of their consumption of our services.

For example, if we go back to my Uber example

where I was a customer using the app

to get rides all over San Francisco,

I removed the risk of not finding a parking space

for my rental car since the service removed my need

for me to have my own rental car in the first place.

However, I now run the risk of not being able

to call an Uber if the app malfunctions.

Or, what if I'm in an area where

there's no cellular service?

Or, what if my phone battery dies?

All of these are new risks that are introduced

into my desired outcome of traveling around San Francisco.

Now as a consumer of the service, I can also contribute

to reducing the risk by taking some mitigating actions.

For example, I can carry around

a spare battery pack with me.

By doing this as a consumer, I am reducing

the risk that I won't be able to call for an Uber

when I need one because of my battery dying.

At the same time, I might also communicate

to Uber that I'm finding it difficult

to use their service in more rural areas.

Maybe when I'm outside the city,

I'm not getting enough Uber drivers in that area.

By more clearly articulating my needs and my requirements,

then the service provider can determine

if they're able to better meet them.

Maybe Uber is going to decide that they're going to pay a premium

or a bonus to their drivers who will work

in those more rural areas outside the city center.

That might increase the number of drivers on those streets

and make it easier for customers to get a ride.

Now as a consumer, it's up to me to

clearly communicate my needs to that service provider

and to clarify the outcomes that I want to achieve.

I also need to make sure I'm communicating any constraints

or critical success factors

that I may have for that service.

This means I'm putting requirements

on that service provider, right?

Well, guess what?

This service provider may also

put requirements on me as a customer too.

In the example of Uber, they require me

to have a cell phone, a valid data plan,

and the ability to send my GPS location to their drivers

by using the location tracking feature on my phone.

This is a two way street after all.

We're both working to co-create

the value and reduce the overall risk.

Now, since risk is a possible event that could cause harm

or make it more difficult for us to achieve our objectives,

we can do some things to mitigate that risk.

Well, what are those things that we can do?

There's actually 4 things we can do with risk.

We can avoid risk, we can accept risk,

we can transfer risk, or we can mitigate risk.

Now, when we avoid risk, we're aiming

to actually remove it completely from the service.

Now, in reality, we can't remove all the risk for a service

because risk is something that's inherent in everything

that a business does to some level in some degree.

But, there are certain risks that we can avoid completely.

For example, let's say that you're running a service

that allows people to read your blog.

Maybe you're worried about the new privacy regulations

and don't want to have to worry about maintaining

all of the blog reader's information securely

and properly under the new GDPR provisions.

Well, you could avoid those issues completely

if you turn off tracking on your reader's information

by disabling any cookies, and you can also remove any

requests for their email addresses

and other things like that.

If you're not collecting their information, you no longer

have to protect that information.

Now, this may not be the best business decision, right

because most businesses want to be able to track

their customers and contact them by email with offers.

So, while you can avoid this whole situation,

it's probably better if we found

a better way to handle this risk.

And that brings us to simply accepting the risk.

With this option, you look at the cost of protecting

against the risk and you look at the possible bad outcomes

and determine that it's simply cheaper to pay

to accept the risk and pay up if you're going to get caught.

Now, going back to our privacy example, I have a friend

who is in an Australian based company,

which is outside of the European Union.

Because of this, he's taken the position that

he's not worried about complying with the GDPR policies

because he's an Australian living in Australia

and he has an Australian company.

He isn't actively targeting European customers,

but if they happen to go to his site, too bad.

He's calculated the risk and he believes the risk

is low that the EU is going to try to fine him

or even collect if they do.

So he's taken no actions in regard

to changing the way his website works

or the way his business works.

He's going to do it the exact same way he did before GDPR

to the way it is after GDPR.

Now, this is called risk acceptance.

Now, the next thing we could do is we can

instead decide to transfer the risk.

Maybe you don't want to be responsible for collecting

and storing all this private information,

but you still want access to that data.

Well, in that case you can hire

a service provider to collect it for you,

to store it securely, and to give you access.

This would be a form of risk transfer.

Another option might be that you take the approach

that my Australian friend did and he simply is going to

pay some insurance in case you get sued or fined.

This transfers the risk to the insurance company

because you paid them a monthly premium

to take that risk on for you.

Our final option with risk is what's most commonly used.

It's known as risk mitigation.

With risk mitigation, we put in place some actions to

reduce the risk even if it doesn't eliminate it completely.

In our privacy data example, we may add

new technology systems that are going to better protect

the data and implement new processes

in the way that we handle the data.

This will help us reduce the risk and

hopefully make the information much more secure,

which is one of the intended outcomes of GDPR anyway.

But, a hacker can still break into our network

and steal all of the customers' data.

If this happens, we might have reduced the risk

but we didn't eliminate the risk.

That's the idea of risk mitigation.













Utility and warranty are two terms

that every ITIL student simply has to know.

They're going to come up to time and time again

throughout your training and in the real world.

Utility refers to the functionality offered by a

particular product and service to meet a particular need.

This really is what the product or service does.

Utility is what we refer to as fit for purpose.

Now, let's take a look at warranty for a moment

and then we're going to compare and contrast these two terms.

Warranty is the assurance that the product or service

will meet the agreed upon requirements.

It is how a service performs.

Warranty is concerned with the service's ability

to accomplish what it needs to do.

This is often referred to as fit for use.

Now, to compare and contrast these two terms,

let's use the example of a car.

As a consumer, you have a requirement

to drive a car from point A to point B.

You want it to get at least

35 miles per gallon of fuel efficiency

and you live somewhere that gets really hot in the summer

and really cold in the winter,

so you want a good, cold air conditioning system

and a really nice, warm heater.

Now, let's consider these requirements

and determine if it meets our utility standard.

Remember, utility is about something being fit for purpose

and if I have a small family,

I may be able to fit my wife and my two kids

in a four-door sedan like a Toyota Prius.

So, to carry the family from point A to point B,

the Prius would be fit for purpose

and it would meet my utility functions.

In addition to this, if I bought a brand new Prius,

it would certainly have high enough fuel efficiency

and have a really nice air conditioner and heating system,

so it's going to meet my warranty requirements as well.

Remember, warranty is all about fit for use.

Does it meet the requirements stated by the consumer?

So, since I'm the consumer, I'm going to say that

it had to have at least 35 miles a gallon of fuel efficiency

and a working air conditioner and heater

and this brand new Prius will

certainly meet those requirements.

This means it's deemed fit for use.

Now, let's say that I bought the car,

a few years go by, and my wife has another child.

Uh oh, we already had two kids,

so this little Prius isn't going to be very good

for carrying my entire family around anymore.

It no longer is going to be fit for purpose

because any time I want to go out to dinner as a family,

we're now going to have to take two cars

because we all can't fit into the little Prius.

The warranty might still be there because

the air conditioner still works and the heater still works

and it still gets over 35 miles per gallon,

but the intended purpose of getting us all

from point A to point B simply can't be accomplished.

There's not enough seats and not enough seat belts.

And since utility is concerned with fit for purpose,

this Prius is no longer meeting my utility needs.

So, hopefully this little example helps you

understand the difference between utility and warranty,

that what a service does is utility,

that's driving from point A to point B.

On the other hand, how the service does it

needs to be considered as part of warranty,

that's getting 35 miles per gallon

and keeping the inside of the car at the right temperature,

not too hot and not too cold.

Now, one of the important things to remember

is that you need both utility and warranty

for a service to operate successfully.

In the IT world, we often see people focus on the warranty

and they simply forget about utility.

If I have a service that runs on

a wonderful Elastic Cloud Infrastructure that can handle

million of users simultaneously, that is warranty.

IT people like warranty because it's easy to measure.

If you require that a service has

a defined and agreed upon condition

and you meet those conditions, you have good warranty.

Utility simply requires that a service

support the performance of the consumer

or they remove constraints from that consumer.

So, if the service can be used effectively by the users

to share their latest social media posts, for example,

that would be considered utility.

If the service is always up, meaning it has great warranty,

but it doesn't perform the service

that the customer wants it to do,

meaning it hasn't gotten good utility,

then the service is simply going to end up failing.

You can't run a successful service

without both utility and warranty.













In this section of the course,

we're going to discuss

the four dimensions of service management.

Now when we talk about the four dimensions

of IT service management,

what we're really talking about

is four different perspectives.

So if I have in the center

the value that I'm trying to co-create,

I do that by using different products and services

that I deliver as a service provider

to my consumer or my customer.

Now, the consumer and customer has this

product that they want to get value from, right?

And that means that we have to deliver

that product or service.

Now when I go to create a product or service,

I look at it form four different perspectives.

And these four perspectives are what we call

the four dimensions of IT service management.

The first one is the organizations and people.

The second is information and technology.

The third is the partners and suppliers.

And the fourth is the value streams and processes.

And all around that, I have these external factors

you can see around the side

that are going to impact the service and products

that we're creating as well.

Well, let's consider the process of incident management.

How are we going to deal with incident management

when something happens to our service or our product?

Well, if we look at it through

the organizations and people lens, or that dimension,

we're going to ask the question

of how we're going to organize our teams.

Is it something the service desk is going to handle?

Are we going to have different tiers,

like tier one, tier two, tier three support?

Or are we going to have a flat organization?

These are all the things we have to figure out.

How are we going to organize our communications?

How is that tier one representative

going to transfer the information they collected

to the tier two representative,

if you're going to use a tiered or vertical organization.

How are you going to escalate it up to the next level?

At which trip points?

Well how about the people you need?

How are you going to decide how many people you need

to run the incident management

for a particular service?

What competencies do they need?

Is this service going to be something that uses AWS,

so you need Amazon Web Service certified people?

Or is this going to be something

where we're going to use local services?

How about the qualifications?

How about the way they're going to interact?

How are you going to motivate the people?

How are you going to hire the right people?

How are you going to keep the right people?

How are you going to pay them?

And how are you going to make sure that they're capable

of doing the incident management

that you want them to do?

All of these are things you have to think about

from the organizations and people lens

or perspective or dimension.

Now when I look at it from

the information and technology side,

let's think about it from the process standpoint.

How am I going to register the incident?

Am I writing it down on a piece of paper,

am I putting it in an internet portal,

am I using a certain piece of

software or hardware to do that?

How about the relationships between incidents?

How do I know that this incident with this printer

that happened today

is related or not related

to the one that happened three weeks ago?

Well, maybe I have some kind of technology

or information management software

that does that for me.

That can track the incidents and the problems.

Or the incidents and the particular configuration item,

meaning that printer.

Or the incidents and the different users

who are being affected.

Maybe when we get all these calls and we put them together,

we find that all of the users affected

all reside in building one,

and not in building two.

So maybe it's a problem with building one.

And so we can look into that, right?

How about incident management tools

for information flow?

How are we going to do work flow?

How are we to use knowledge bases?

How about diagnostic tools?

How are we going to detect these events

and process these events?

How are we going to communicate with each other?

How are we going to organize and share data?

All of this is stuff that goes under that information part

of the information and technology portion of this dimension.

Then we get to our third dimension,

and we start looking at our partners and suppliers, right?

Because nobody is self sufficient.

We talked about this before.

Maybe this printer is broken because

it ran out of supplies.

There's no more paper, there's no more toner, right?

So those are things we'd have to think about.

We think about partners and suppliers.

We have to think about the external teams

that are going to contribute to the success of our service.

Maybe in this case, we have outsourced completely

the management of the printers,

and that company isn't doing a good job,

and so we need to evaluate their contract.

If we outsource a service,

how are we going to escalate incidents to them

once something is broken.

Or maybe we escalate top tier service.

So we handle minor incidents in house,

but we're going to outsource those major incidents,

and so we have to escalate it to them.

How do we get information back from them

when they fix something, right?

Two way street between partners and suppliers and us.

All of this is things that we have to think about

when we start considering how we're going to operate

with our partners and our suppliers, right?

And then we have our final dimension to look at,

which is going to be our value stream and our processes.

Maybe we look at that value stream

and see that this whole process of printing

actually has issues with it,

because it's not optimized properly.

There's too much waste in it.

Maybe we've looked at it and we said,

you know what, we can take out step number two,

and just make it step one, three, and four,

and that will solve the problem.

All those things are things that we would evaluate

as we look at it from the four dimensions.

And then finally,

we might want to look at it

from those external perspectives.

One of those, the E, stood for environmental.

Maybe we have somebody who doesn't like the fact

that we're printing and wasting a bunch of trees

by printing out a lot of stuff.

And so somebody might have jammed the printer on purpose

to break it, because they are an environmentalist, right?

That's kind of crazy, but you kind of get the idea

of what I'm talking about.

We can start thinking about

all of these four dimensions,

and these external factors,

and how they're going to affect a simple service,

something like printing,

or something like an incident management.

And as we look at this, that's how all of this

ends up tying together.

And that's the whole idea of using these four dimensions

when you're thinking about your processes,

your people, your organization,

your technology, your information,

all of that stuff, so that you can make sure

that your products and services

are delivering the value they're supposed to.










So let's start with what is the service value system?

Well, the service value system, or the SVS,

is going to describe how all of the components

and activities of your organization work together

as a system to enable value co-creation.

Now, these components and activities

are all tied together within the organization's resources,

and they can be configured and reconfigured

in multiple different combinations

in this flexible way based on the circumstances.

Now, this is going to require some integration

and coordination of all of the different activities

and practices and teams within the organization,

as well as different authorities and responsibilities

for this to truly be effective.

Some organizations are much more flexible than others.

Some are very tight and stringent in their ways.

But depending on your organization and its culture,

you're going to be able to utilize this service value system

in a very rigid or very flexible manner.

It just depends on your organization

and how you implement it.

Now, the purpose of this service value system

is to ensure that your organization

is continually co-creating value

with all of your stakeholders

through the use and management of the products

and services that you have within your organization.

Now, when we look at this service value system,

it's made up of three basic blocks that we're going to see.

You'll see on the left side, we have opportunity and demand.

That's our input.

We have on the right side value.

That's our output.

And then we have all this stuff in the middle.

In the middle we have the service value chain.

Around that service value chain, we also have governance

and practices because there are 34 different practices

inside of ITIL 4 that we're going to cover.

And then we have governance,

which is the way the organization is run.

And then, we have the guiding principles

and continual improvement.










The Guiding Principles.

We're going to take a look at the seven guiding principles

in ITIL 4.

A guiding principle is a recommendation

that's going to guide an organization in all circumstances.

That's right, guiding principles can be used

to guide an organization in their work

as they adopt a service management approach

and adapt ITIL guidance

to their own specific needs and circumstances.

This means that all organizations

are going to integrate the use of multiple different methods

into their overall approach to service management.

The way you do service management

and the way I do service management might be different,

but we both should be based on the same guiding principles

because these are guiding principles are applied universally

to every initiative out there.

Now when we talk about applying those guiding principles,

these guiding principles are going to help us

to encourage and support our organizations

in their continual improvement

across all levels of the organization.

These, as I said, are applied universally

to all of the initiatives,

but also to all of the relationships

with your different stakeholder groups.

So as we talk about the consumers and the customers

and the stakeholders across the organization,

all of these people need to be considered

when you're thinking about these guiding principles.

For example, the first guiding principle is known as

focus on value.

Now with focus on value, it can and should be applied

to all of your relevant stakeholders

and respective definitions of value.

We're not going to just consider the value for the consumer,

but we also want to look at it

from the value for the customer.

We want to look at it for the value for the service provider.

All of those different people and stakeholders

need to be getting value

from whatever the service is we're doing

and so that's the way that we look at this stuff for example

as we're looking at the focus on value principle.

Now as an organization,

I'm not going to use just one or two of these principles,

but I should consider all seven of them

and determine which ones are relevant for each situation

and how I should apply them.

Not all of the principles

are going to be critical in every situation,

but you're probably going to find that five or six

or even seven of them may apply to your initiative

and so you want to think through each of them

kind of like a checklist

to make sure you're thinking about your service

in a holistic way.

As you do this and you review each of them,

you have a way to determine

whether or not they're appropriate for your service

and should it be applied.

Now I mentioned a lot about these guiding principles so far,

but I haven't even told you what they are.

The first is focus on value.

The second is start where you are.

The third is progress iteratively and with feedback.

The fourth is to collaborate and promote visibility.

The fifth is to think and work holistically.

The sixth is to keep it simple and practical

and finally our seventh one is to optimize and automate.








So back when we talked about the service value system,

we had one inside block that showed us

the service value chain.

Well, we're going to break that block open

and look at all of those different pieces.

As you can see here, we have things like engage,

plan, improve, design and transition, obtain and build,

deliver and support, and products and services,

and all of those are going to work together

as part of this service value chain.

Now, there's a couple of important things to know

when we look at a diagram like this.

This is not shown to introduce a linear sequence of events.

If you happen to be familiar with ITIL v3

or the older version of ITIL,

we had what we called the service lifecycle

and it was a sequence of actions in a linear format.

So, we would start with a strategy and then move to design

and then move to transition and then move to operations

and then we would move to continual service improvement,

and we worked through those five life cycles.

Here, in ITIL 4, we don't do that anymore.

This is not a linear sequence, instead,

we normally are going to start with engage

but we don't always have to

and based on that, we're then going to

touch into other areas of that interial cube.

And as we look at that central cube

with the activities in there, we have three major groups.

We have design and transition,

obtain and build, and deliver and support.

These are what are referred to as the central activities

inside the service value chain

and these can interact in any order between each other

and with the other activities, as well.

Another important thing to note,

is this overlap that exists between improve

and the other area of the service value chain.

You'll notice that improve is shown

in the lower half of this diagram

and there's this overlap of this purple band

that goes from improve to improve and engage.

You have improve to the activities inside the central cube,

such as the deliver and support,

the design and transition, or the obtain and build.

We have improve in the products and services.

All of these are here to show us that feedback loop

that exists between each part of the service value chain,

as it moves through the improvement cycle

and the continual service improvement.

Now, you also need to understand

and manage the perceived value of this service value chain

because it's going to drive the demand for the next order,

the next product, the next service,

or the next iteration of your service relationship.

Now, the reason why we call this a service value chain

is because all these actions are linked together,

so there's a lot of interactions that occur

between these different practices.

This service value chain activities are going to represent

all of the different steps that the organizations going to take

in the creation or co-creation of value.

Each activity is going to contribute to the value chain

by transforming the specific inputs into desired outputs,

and so as we take things from demand and opportunity,

it goes through that service value chain,

getting additional value added

and coming out the other side as the value

and the desired outcome that we want for our services.

That's the way that we're going to be looking at all this.

And so, to convert theses inputs into outputs,

these value chain activities

are going to use different combinations

of the 34 ITIL practices that we're going to discuss

throughout the remainder of this course.

Each activity can draw upon internal

or third party resources,

they can look at different processes,

different skills and competencies,

from one or more of these 34 practices.

They don't have to be done individually,

they can be combined together, too,

and that's the whole idea here,

as we start getting these inner relationships

through the service value chain activities.

All of the incoming and outgoing interactions

with all the different parties

that are external to your service provider

are all performed through the engage value chain activity.

That's why it's one of those first ones

that normally occurs.

Anytime you want a new resource,

that's going to be obtained through

the obtain and build activity.

Anytime you want to plan something,

any planning is going to occur through the plan activity.

When you're trying to improve things,

that's going to happen through the improve activity.

You're kind of getting the idea here, right.

All of the different things that we do,

are going to be binned into one or more

of these different buckets.

As we create and modify and deliver and maintain and support

a component, a product, or a service,

all that's going to happen inside that central cube,

between design and transition,

obtain and build, and delivery and support.

As we look at our products and services,

our demand and our value,

these are not considered value chain activities, right.

Those go back to our service value system.

Those are our inputs and our outputs,

so the inside is what we're really looking at here.

That's engage, plan, improve, obtain/build,

delivery and support, and design and transition

as we move forward.











Continual improvement.

So we've spent a lot of time going through each

of the pieces of the service value system.

In the last section, we covered the middle block,

which was the service value chain.

Now we're going to move to the lowest block,

which is continual improvement.

You'll notice here that it is called out

in this purple block.

Now right above continual improvement,

there's a block called practices,

and practices are going to be the 34 distinct ITIL practices

that we're going to cover throughout the course.

And oddly enough, continual improvement is one

of those 34.

So why is continual improvement pulled out

in the diagram as its own activity shown here,

in addition to the fact that it's a practice?

Well it's because continual improvement is that important.

In everything we do, we should always be trying it improve.

So what is that definition?

Well, the purpose of the continual improvement practice

is to align the organization's practices

and services with changing business needs

through the ongoing identification and improvement

of services, service components,

practices, or elements that are involved

in the efficient and effective management

of products and services.

Now the continual improvement model is a seven-step

methodology that provides us a framework

of how we should do improvement operations

within our organizations.

So what is this model?

Well, it all starts out with step number one,

what is the vision?

Then we move into step two:

Where are we now?

Step three, where do we want to be?

Step four, how do we get there?

Step five, take action.

Step six, did we get there?

Step seven, how do we keep this momentum going?

And then we restart it all again,

because continual improvement is an ongoing process

that never stops.

We're going to continually go, time and time again,

until we get the best product we ever can have.

And guess what?

We're never going to reach perfection.

There's always new features.

There's always better ways of doing something,

and so by doing this continual improvement

we're constantly tryna get better,

and better, and better to get to that ultimate vision,

that nirvana, if you will,

but we're never quite going to reach it.













In this lesson,

we're going to quickly cover

the 34 practices in the ITIL 4 framework.

But before we jump in to these 34 practices,

we should really talk about what exactly is a practice?

You may remember from our service value system lesson

that there was a portion of the diagram

that called out these practices.

Well, a practice is a set of organized resources designed

for performing work or accomplishing an objective.

Now, each practice is going to support

multiple service value chain activities

and include some resources based on the four dimensions

of IT service management.

Now, the 34 individual practices in ITIL 4

are divided up into three main categories.

We have general management practices,

service management practices,

and technical management practices.

The first category is the general management category.

This category has 14 of the 34 ITIL practices.

General management practices contain the practices

that service management teams

or service management organizations have adopted

from the wider business domain.

This includes things like architecture management,

continual improvement, information security management,

knowledge management, measurement and reporting,

organizational change management, portfolio management,

project management, relationship management,

risk management, service financial management,

strategy management, supplier management,

and workforce and talent management.

Now, all of these general management principles

have been adopted and adapted for service management

for more generalized business management domains,

just like I said before.

For example, project management and portfolio management

are not something that only occur within the IT world.

We use these across all of our business lines

and across all of our organizations,

and this is why these

are considered general business management domains.

The second category is service management practices.

This category has 17 of the 34 ITIL practices.

Service management practices are those

which the service management organization

has created for themselves

or they've adopted from other guidance

from within the service management industry.

These include things like availability management,

business analysis, capacity and performance management,

change enablement, incident management, IT asset management,

monitoring and event management, problem management,

release management, service catalog management,

service configuration management,

service continuity management, service design,

the service desk, service level management,

service request management practices,

and service validation and testing.

Now, the third category

is our technical management practices.

This category only has three of the 34 ITIL practices.

Technology management practices

are those technical functions which have been elevated

to the level of a service.

This includes the deployment management,

infrastructure and platform management,

and software development and management practices.

Now, in this lesson,

I have just listed out the 34 practices

and which categories they belong to.

Going into each one specifically

is beyond the scope of this particular introductory course.

But if you want to learn about

each of these practices in detail,

I highly recommend going into a full course on ITIL 4.

(innovative music)













We've come a long way throughout this course,

and in this lesson, I want to put it all together.

We started out talking about our

four dimensions of service management,

which include organizations and people,

information and technology,

partners and suppliers,

and the value stream and processes.

Then, we talked about the ITIL service value system.

This included our opportunity and demands as our input,

and those are shaped by our service value chain,

our governance, our practices, our guiding principles,

and our continual improvement,

and out the other side, we got value.

Now, we also dug into the service value chain itself,

as part of the service value system.

We explored the different parts of it, like engage, plan,

improve, design and transition, obtain and build,

deliver and support, and our products and services.

And then, we spent the last three sections of the course

looking at the 34 different practices across ITIL 4.

But now, it's time for us to put it all together.

So let's walk through a real-world scenario

with an incident that needs to be resolved,

and see how everything we talked about so far

will be integrated together to create the desired value.

Now, let's pretend we work for a large logistics company,

something like Walmart or Amazon, and we're part of

their IT service management organization within the company.

They have a warehouse that uses a wifi network

in order to allow the forklift driver

to receive instructions on his mobile device

that tells him which aisle and which rack the product is

that he needs to go pick up.

Unfortunately, the wireless access point that supports

the wifi in this area of the warehouse

isn't working so well, and so the driver's mobile device

can't get the information that he needs.

Now, this has a significant impact on our business

because whenever that forklift driver can't receive

the instructions quickly enough, there's a risk

that a tight business deadline might be missed.

After all, some companies like Amazon

rely on their super-fast shipping

as a core function of their business model.

Now, while this may seem like

a relatively straightforward incident,

it can't be resolved simply by following the steps

of a predetermined incident management procedure.

Instead, there's a lot of interconnections

among the practices and the activities

for this wireless network to get fixed

and returned to normal operations.

So let's get started with the service value system first.

First, we're going to see that we have a demand,

and in this case, the warehouse manager

and the forklift driver discovered the wifi coverage

isn't working properly in a certain portion

of the warehouse.

This means the forklift driver needs to drive

back to the manager's office in between each pickup,

so he can find out the location of his next product

within the warehouse.

This is causing delays,

and that could cause delivery deadlines to be missed.

This is an incident.

From this demand, we now move to the engage activity,

where the warehouse manager

is going to call up the service desk.

The service desk agent listens to the issue

that's being described by the warehouse manager,

they log it as an incident in the incident management system

and they categorize that incident as a high priority.

The agent then lets the warehouse manager know

that they're going to escalate the issue to

the technical support team that's responsible

for that wireless network, and they provide him updates

every two hours until that issue is fixed.

Now, the service desk agent escalates the ticket

for the wireless network

up to the wireless network support team.

These are the folks who have the delivery and support

function in the value chain activity

for this wireless network.

This allows the service desk agent to provide

the information to the network support engineer,

and the diagnosis and analysis of the incident

is going to begin by that engineer.

Next, the network support engineer identifies that

the wireless access point has failed,

and she decides to replace it with a spare

from the existing spare parts inventory.

This action alone is going to involve several practices.

First, we have the IT asset management practice,

so that she can update the serial number

in the configuration item database.

Then, she goes through

the service configuration management practice,

because she needs to configure this device

based on the approved baseline, and install it.

She's also going to go through the change control practice,

since she's going to install a new piece of equipment

into the network, and of course,

she's going to go through incident management,

because she's working on resolving an incident.

Let's assume that the replacement

of this wireless access point is considered

a standard change, so no additional approvals are needed.

If it was a normal change, then we would have to go through

and get approval through the change management process,

or escalate that issue as an emergency change.

Either way, all of this would occur

within the change control practice, though, right?

Finally, our network engineer replaces the access point,

verifies that it's working,

and she updates the incident management system.

She then calls the service desk agent, and tells her

that she believes the incident has been resolved.

Now that the engineer has fixed the incident,

she sits back and thinks about what happened,

and she thinks about any possible ways that

she could have fixed this more efficiently.

If she thinks of any, she might add those to the continual

improvement register as suggestions for future improvements.

If she does this, this becomes part of

continual improvement practice and the improve activity.

Now, the service desk agent, on the other hand,

goes back to the engage activity

by contacting the warehouse manager,

and she tells him that the wireless network

should be working again.

She asks the manager to verify that

the forklift driver's mobile phone is working again,

and gets the confirmation of this, and when she does,

she can then close that incident fully.

Now, when we look at the final block

on the service value system, that's value.

The value's being co-created by ensuring

the wireless coverage is restored, and the forklift driver

can now perform his job more efficiently once again,

by using that mobile device to identify the location

of the product that he needs to pick up and move.

About an hour later, that warehouse manager might receive

a brief email, asking for a user satisfaction survey.

This might ask for his feedback on the incident

and its resolution.

This would become an engage activity again, right?

Well, if he fills out the survey, we can then take that

and based on the feedback received, we can identify

trends and patterns based on satisfaction scores

in the user's comments.

This would fall under our improve area,

and we're going to be determining if our incident management

system and our processes are working effectively.

So, that was a lot.

As you can see, all of this ties together,

and we enter and leave different activities

and different practices all throughout this single incident

and its single resolution.

It isn't a simply linear process, but instead,

we're bounced from engage to the deliver and support,

back to engage, over to improve, and many other practices,

several times during this quick example.

Remember, identifying and understanding

all of these interconnections is the key to establishing

and promoting good service management.

So when you're looking at one of your processes,

or one of your workloads, you need to consider

all of these things as you're laying it out,

so you can make sure you're doing it

the most efficient and effective way possible.Let's discuss a few details about the ITIL4

Foundation Certification exam.

If you're like most of my students you probably

are taking this course because you eventually

want to become ITIL4 Foundation Certified.

Maybe you're working on the certification

to advance in your current career,

or maybe it's because you're trying to get

your first job in the IT field.

Either way this course was designed to give you

a great introduction to the certification

and determine if you want to join

a full ITIL4 Foundation course

so that you can pass the certification exam.

In this section of the course I'm going to give you some

information about the ITIL4 Foundation Certification Exam

such as how many questions it is, how long it is, how those

questions are designed, and how you can sign up

to take the exam when you feel ready for it.

The certification exam is time and you only get 60 minutes

to take the exam.

If you're taking exam in English and English

isn't your native language of mother tongue,

you do get an extra 15 minutes of time

on the official certification exam,

bringing your time up to 75 minutes if you request

that time extension from PeopleCert scheduling your exam.

For those less for native English speakers though,

we only get 60 Minutes.

Don't worry though, 60 Minutes is more than enough time

for you to complete this exam.

Most of my students finish the exam

in about 30 minutes or so.

Now your exam is going to contain 40 questions

and the exam contains only multiple choice questions.

It's really important to remember that this exam

is all about recall and understanding,

not about memorization.

Therefore, you won't be asked to write out a definition

word-for-word, or pull and answer out of thin air,

instead you're always selecting an answer as A, B, C, or D.

Now since the ITIL4 exam is focused on you having

the ability to recall or understand the concepts

from your studies,

it is important to understand what the words

recall and understand mean in terms

of this certification exam.

Basically, if the question is focused on your ability

to recall something, this means you have to be able

to identify a definition or a term

from the answer choices provided.

For example, if the exam provides you a definition

for a particular term that we used in the course,

it's going to give it to you word-for-word,

the exact same way that we presented it, and then

you're going to get four different terms and you have

to choose the correct one from those.

This is a good example of a question using the recall level

of difficulty on the exam.

On the exam nine of your 40 questions are considered

to be recall level questions,

for that reason it's really important to be familiar

with the definitions and why we always call

out the definitions during our lessons in both this course

and our ITIL4 Foundation Certification Training Course.

In that course all these definitions are also provided

to you in a downloadable course study guide,

as well as being displayed on the screen

whenever I'm teaching them to you.

Now if you get a question that's focused on your ability

to understand something,

this means you have to be able to describe

or explain a definition, a term, or concept,

based on the answers provided.

For the certification exam, the remaining 31 out of the 40

questions are going to be at this level.

For these questions, the exam isn't looking for an exact

word-for-word match,

but instead you might be given something like

an example of something and you have to determine

the correct ITIL practice that would relate to it.

if you pay attention to the material in our courses though,

you're going to quickly learn all the concepts of ITIL4

and you'll be able to answer these questions

without too much difficulty on the exam.

Now in order to pass the certification exam

you have to answer at least 26 questions right

out of the 40 questions.

This equates to about a 65% higher on the exam

in order for you to pass it and earn

your ITIL4 Certification.

To prepare for the exam I recommend taking

a lot of practice exams.

To give you a feel for the type of questions

you're going to get on the exam,

I'm going to include a few sample quizzes

in this section of the course,

with the different types of questions for you to attempt.

This will give you an idea what the questions

on the real exam are going to feel like.

Whenever you're taking a practice exam,

I always recommend aiming for 75% or higher

for you to consider it a pass.

This will give you a comfortable 10% buffer

in case you a bad test day, or you get nervous

when you're taking timed tests and certification exams.

If you're consistently scoring 75% or higher

on your practice exams,

you should be ready for the real thing.

Now if you decide to work towards the official certification

and become ITIL4 Foundation certified,

I highly recommend taking a lot of these practice exams.

In my ITIL4 training courses for example,

I always provide eight full-length practice exams

as part of the training.

This gives you over 320 unique practice questions

to ensure that you're ready on test day no matter what

question they give you.

So this brings up the question of how you take

the official certification exam and become

ITIL4 Foundation certified.

Well Axelos and PeopleCert make it really easy for you

because you don't even have to get in your car and drive

to a testing center like a lot of other certifications.

Instead you're able to take the exam online

from the comfort of your own home or office

using the PeopleCert web proctoring service.

To schedule your exam you do need an exam voucher though,

which covers the cost of the certification exam.

You can buy the exam voucher directly

at PeopleCert on their website,

and it cost about $350 to $400, depending on where you live

because they use regional pricing.

This exam voucher entitles you to take the exam only once,

if you pass it, you're certified.

If you feel it though, you have to buy a new voucher

in order to take the exam again

and this can get quite expensive.

For that reason PeopleCert offers something called

the Take2 option, which for an additional $89 or $99,

when your booking your exam, you can get this option.

I like to think of this as failed exam insurance,

basically, if you pay the extra money

to get this Take2 option and you fail the exam

when you take it the first time,

they're going to give you an exam retake and no extra cost

within the next six months,

but if you pass the exam the first time they keep

that extra money and you're still certified.

So if you pass the exam the first time up,

which you really should if you're using

a good training course,

then you don't need to spend the extra money

on a Tak2e option.

But, if you're a bit scared of tests and you're thinking

you might fail,

then you might want to spend the extra money

and get the Take2.

Please note, you have to buy the Take2 option

before you take your exam.

It works like insurance, you can't buy insurance

for your car after you've already wrecked your car.

The same thing here, if you already took

and failed the exam,

then you have to buy a new voucher because they're not

going to sell you this exam insurance, this Take2 option,

after you've already failed.

Now the question I always get from students

is, "should I pay the extra money to buy the Take2 option?"

and I'll tell you my answer is no,

because I believe you should take the exam

after you studied for it and you've been using

a good training course.

If you do that, you shouldn't need the Take2 option

because you aren't going to fail.

In fact, if you decide to join me

in my ITIL training courses at diontraining.com,

we provide you with everything you need to get certified,

including the videos, the study guide, the quizzes,

the practice exams, and even your exam voucher

as part of our package.

And because we believe strongly in our ability

to get you certified,

we actually will pay for your exam retake

if you fail the exam after you took our course,

making it completely unnecessary for you to get

that Take2 option.

That being said, you don't have to get your course from us.

You can get it from any authorized training organization

to prepare for the certification exam,

but I do recommend you look at their retake policies

and their voucher costs too.

Some organization will have very little voucher cost,

but very high training costs,

or vice versa.

Regardless of where you buy your training

and your exam voucher,

you do need to schedule your exam at PeopleCert's website

and choose the day and time that's most convenient for you.

PeopleCert offers the exam anytime of the day or night,

both on weekdays and weekends,

24 hours a day, seven days a week,

to make it really convenient for you to get certified.

So now you know what to study for the exam in terms

of recalling understanding,

you've purchased your training and your exam voucher,

and you've scheduled your exam,

so let's talk about the test questions themself.

I already said you're going to get 40 questions

on exam day and they're all going to be multiple choice,

but you should also know that there are three different

types of multiple choice questions that you're going to see.

These are called classic, missing word,

and list type questions.

Let's take a look at some silly examples

for each of these to really drive the point home.

First we have our classic questions,

for example, which character was created by Walt Disney,

a, Bart Simpson, b, Mickey Mouse, c, Fred Flintstone,

or d, Garfield?

Well if you know cartoons, you probably know

the right answer is B, Mickey Mouse.

This is a classic type question.

Now you may also see a few classic questions

on the exam soon as what we call

a negative classic question.

This is symbolized by the word not in the question.

So if I asked you which is not a car brand,

a, Ford, b, Saturn, c, Cisco, or d, Toyota,

you should hopefully realize that Cisco is not a car brand.

In fact, Cisco is a brand of networking equipment,

but the other three choices are all car brands,

so Cisco's the right answer in this case

because it is not a car brand.

Now the next type of question we have is what's known

as a missing word question.

On the exam this is shown by a question mark

that represents a single word or a short phrase

of the two to four words.

For example, a are and blank is a type of fruit.

A, Apple, b, Carrot, c, Onion, or d, Celery.

Well the answer is a, Apple,

because b, c, and d, are all types of vegetables.

This makes the sentence read as an apple is a type of fruit.

Now the final type of question is known

as a list type question.

You're probably going to get one or two of these

on your ITIL4 Certification Exam.

These questions ask a question that have

more than one correct answer,

and they provide those in and numbered list.

So you're then going to select the answer choice

that represents the correct list items.

For example, which ingredients are in a PB&J sandwich,

one, Peanut butter, two, Apples, three, Bacon,

or four, Grape jelly.

Now as a parent who's made a lot of PB&J sandwiches

in my life, I can tell you that it's one and four,

peanut butter and jelly.

So we have to find the letter choice the answers

one and four, which is this case is d,

and so that becomes our answer.

So now that you know all about the exam,

let's try some practice questions in this sections quizzes

to see what some real questions might look like on the exam.

















